History:	58 yr old female with  pmhx sig htn, asthma and head injury 1/13.  with residual right
side numbness and headaches with double vision. admit for emu monitoring. pt c/o
periods of dizziness, headaches, loss of speech, and understanding speech. pt poor
Medications:	None Reported
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 50 hours from 07/07/2014 to 07/09/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	1
Description of pushbutton events
See note.
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  There is excess theta during wakefulness.  During brief drowsiness, the
alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.  During drowsiness, the alpha
rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
There is intermittent focal slowing in the left midtemporal region at T3  On 07/08/2014 at 8:40AM
the patient appears to be confused and does not answer questions appropriately. The patient states
she cannot think.This last for 10 minutes. The EEG background remains normal during the entire
episode.  On 07/09/2014 at 6:40 in AM the patient complains her head is numb. There is no EEG
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR 70
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, mid
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 50 hour EMU-EEG because of intermittent focal slowing on the left
midtemporal region. This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
non-specific. In addition there is mild diffuse slowing, which is also non-specific with regards to
etiology.  The events captured had no EEG correlate and were not epileptic.
sleep spindles and K complexes appear. Correlate to this.


