History:	UNKNOWN male found down at the bottom on 8 steps severely intoxicated. Found to
have SAH/SDH, s/p craniectomy / evacuation of hematoma followed by drain
placement. 3/22- episode of generalized shaking for 15-20 mins.
Medications:	Keppra, Fentanyl, Desmopressin, Famotidine, Metoprolol, Ativan, Magnesium
Sulfate, Hydralazine, Dilaudid, Gentamicin, Tylenol, Lovenox, Vancomycin,
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 18 hours from 3-23-2015 to 3-24-2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
none
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal midtemporal.
There is an asymmetry of beta activity, with increased amplitude on the left.  Rare focal sharp
waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F7/T3.  No clinical or
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  Hr was 90  Some electrode movement artifact seen over the left
hemisphere electrodes. Particularly in the T3 electrode which impeded clear evaluation of this
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, rare, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, associated breach in this region
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, severe diffuse
Attenuation, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of left anteriotemporal sharp waves, continuous focal slowing
in the left hemisphere and breach.  This finding is indicative of a focal irritative structural lesion in
this region which is potentially epileptogenic and consistent with the known subdural and
craniotomy. In addition there is .  diffuse background slowing, attenuation and absent alpha
rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate to severe diffuse
cerebral dysfunction.electrographic seizures were present.area.	Propranolol, Zosyn






