CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 65-year-old woman with a history of left parieto-occipital lung metastasis removed approximately 3 weeks ago.  She now presents with change in mental status that is accompanied by several convulsions.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin and Decadron.
INTRODUCTION:  Conditions of the Recording:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  This is a 24-hour continuous video EEG recording.  The recording was reviewed on several occasions throughout the 24-hour period.  Medical staff notes and nursing staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms and high amplitudes over the left hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere consists of low amplitude polymorphic 8-9 Hz activity.  There is anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the right hemisphere.  There is no clear posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere and the anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient is weak.  There are continuous semirhythmic and rhythmic moderate amplitude sharp waves with upgoing slow waves observed over the left posterior quadrant, with maximal scalp negativity over T5 and 01 electrodes.  Frequently, these epileptiform discharges are accompanied by low amplitude fast activity.  Frequency of these discharges on average is approximately 1 Hz.  Additionally, they frequently transform into brief poorly organized runs of polymorphic theta and delta with imbedded sharp waves.  This EEG pattern represents ictal interictal continuum.  On several occasions, frank discrete electrographic seizures are  observed.  These start with approximately 1 Hz sharp waves with upgoing slow waves with accompanied fast activity observed over the left posterior quadrant.  This activity increases in frequency into the theta range.  It gradually evolves into approximately 2-1/2 to 3 Hz sharp wave contoured left posterior quadrant delta activity that spreads to the left temporal leads.  These seizures have poorly defined electrographic onset.  They last approximately 60 seconds and in example of such, a seizure occurs at about 6:03 p.m.  As the recording progresses, such seizures become better defined.  These seizures occur several times an hour.  Additionally, as the recording progresses, diffuse polymorphic theta and delta activity are captured and periods of discontinuity are noted.  No normal sleep architecture is captured, however, periods of quiescence are noted.  Starting at approximately 8 p.m., there is progressive electrode artifact that eventually affects multiple leads.  The leads were finally fixed at approximately 8:12 a.m.
FINDINGS:
Ictal interictal continuum emanating from the left posterior quadrant early in the recording.
Discrete focal 15-90 second left posterior quadrant seizures, that are defined as the recording progresses and occur several times per hour in the second half of the recording.
Continuous approximately 1 Hz PLEDs, quasi-PLEDs and PLEDs plus in the left posterior quadrant, with maximal scalp negativity over T5 and 01 electrodes.
Focal left posterior quadrant slowing.
Increase in degree of slowing as the recording progresses.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24-hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to left posterior quadrant continuous rhythmic and semi-rhythmic epileptiform discharges, left posterior quadrant ictal interictal continuum, and left posterior quadrant discrete electrographic seizures that become better defined as the recording progresses.  Additionally, there is left posterior quadrant focal slowing.  These findings indicate focal cerebral dysfunction over the left posterior quadrant, and in this patient consistent with a history of prior left parieto-occipital lobe resection.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



