CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 43-year-old male, status post 10 days video EEG monitoring with refractory status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, midazolam, propofol, By the morning of the 25th, doses include phenobarbital 30 mg per day, Trileptal and levetiracetam had been stopped.  High doses of propofol and lower doses of Versed were used in combination.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG and seizure and spike detection.  In the initial sections of the record, the patient was awake, intubated without clear clinical seizures.  Over the course of the 24 hours, medications were adjusted to try and eliminate the patient's underlying epileptiform pattern.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The initial hours of EEG demonstrate a pattern from the right with generous faster frequency activity and some slow activity, particularly in the posterior quadrant.  Arrhythmic delta activity and a prominent breach rhythm were noted from the left.  Frequent high amplitude, sharp waves, or paroxysmal fast activity were noted from the left parietal/posterior temporal region, P3/T5.
The epileptiform activity remained quite vigorous.
Pharmacologic coma was initiated in an attempt to achieve a burst suppression pattern.  High doses of propofol had little impact on the overall EEG.  Although, the patient was obtunded, a vigorous mixed frequency pattern remained on the right with some posterior delta and on the left continued to demonstrate a left posterior temporal or parietal polyspike discharge.  By 7:20 p.m., the EEG was somewhat more discontinuous.  The discontinuity was a bit more prominent between 11 p.m. and midnight, but bursts of focal spikes or polyspikes, or fast activity were noted again at P3.  The activity was not completely suppressed from the right hemisphere either.
At 5:22 PM, there may have been a medication adjustment because the EEG was more continuous.
Neo-Synephrine was added for blood pressure support.
Medications were readjusted.  By 6:40 a.m., the patient was back to a more discontinuous, but not completely burst suppression pattern.
Heart rate 64 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This section of 24 hours of continuous video EEG monitoring was remarkable:
1.     Periodic complex in the context of a breach rhythm with sharp waves and polyspike activity at P3.
Great difficulty achieving a burst suppression pattern with a relatively resistant pattern noted.
In the burst suppression pattern, there may be some underlying sharp waves noted in the right hemisphere, not previously identified.
Plans are to continue high-dose pharmacologic coma in attempt to reduce the epileptiform activity for 24 hours.
________________________



