CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 69-year-old woman with Alzheimer's disease and epilepsy.  2 year history of  seizures with screaming and stiffening.  Now, 2 /month with loss of consciousness and incontinence.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Risperdal, trazodone, and Aricept.
INTRODUCTION:  A 20-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  This is a technically very challenging EEG for a patient who had difficulty cooperating.  Impedances were generally under 5 kilos ohms.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the patient was moving about almost continually with oral automatisms.  The background EEG was markedly slow with primarily a pattern of arrhythmic delta activity.  The left hemisphere demonstrated more arrhythmic delta activity in comparison to the right, and the right had a bit more theta and beta.
Epileptiform discharges were noted in this record including right central.  There were also some pseudoperiodic complexes noted in the posterior regions with an unusual field of spread, present bilaterally sometimes leaving on the left and on the right, and sometimes with variable phase reversals.  The periodicity was approximately 1 Hz, but did show some variability.  The complex when present was a bit more prominent in the left occipital region than the right.
There were also some triphasic-like discharges noted in this record.
When the technologist's holds the patient's eyes closed, some of the periodic complexes were a bit more prominent particularly those on the left.  Very brief drowsiness was characterized by a dropout of faster frequency activity.  The asymmetry between the 2 hemispheres became more prominent, and there were intermittent suppressions noted on the left.
Heart rate 84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to;
Marked background slowing.
An asymmetry with more clear disruption of faster frequency activity in the left hemisphere relevant to the right.
A pattern of attenuation noted as the patient drifts off to sleep, where the EEG is briefly suppressing.
Triphasic waves.
Periodic complexes with variable maximum, but typically maximum in the occipital regions and more prominent on the left.
Right central sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In comparison to a previous study 2 years ago, the sharp waves at C4 are were noted.  There was significant background slowing, which appears to be more prominent today.  Posterior periodic complexes may also be more prominent.  These findings can be seen in an advanced dementia due to Alzheimer's or other types.



