History:	57 YO MALE P/W LEFT SIDED WEAKNESS FROM OSH. HEAD CT: SMALL R ICH
WITH MIDLINE SHIFT. PT NOW HAVING EPISODES OF CONFUSION..
Medications:
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present in the early morning but as the day progresses there is
the appearance of more normal cerebral activity.  Initially, the background activity was
characterized by diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior
to posterior gradient of frequencies.  By the end of the day, there is a fragmentary posterior
dominant rhythm achieving 7-8Hz, that is reactive. This is more prominent over the left occipital
region.  There remains intermittent frontal Delta activity, with a triphasic morphology.  No normal
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral generalized
Triphasic waves, intermittent, bilateral frontal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing, triphasic waves, and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  Overall the record has improved from yesterday.  No clinical or electrographic seizures
are present.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





