CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 22-year-old male who developed epilepsy in 2006, previously evaluated, with 7 prior ambulatory EEG recordings .  Prior EEGS demonstrated 3 to 4 Hz spike and wave activity and many staring spells without an EEG correlate.  Now, the patient is aware of events with staring and blinking.
MEDICATIONS:  Zarontin, levetiracetam.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient was able to push the button for all events.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
February 23rd to 24th:
Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm with abundant low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.  Drowsiness was characterized by increase in beta.  Vertex waves, K complexes, spindles were noted in stage 2 sleep.   Sleep is fragmented and patient is primarily in lighter sleep states.
Epileptiform seizures:  None.
Pushbuttons:  Practice pushbuttons only.
Interictal epileptiform detections:  In stage 2 sleep, there is rare dyshormia noted at 4:04 and 4:27 with a question of underlying 4 Hz spike and wave superimposed upon sleep morphology with spindle.
Heart rate 78-108 BPM
IMPRESSION:  Day 1:  Remarkable for:
No events.
Dyshormia:  the only brief epileptiform activity noted only in sleep.
February 24rd to 25th:
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Zarontin, medications in reduction.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring continues for 22-year-old male with staring spells.  The patient had multiple push buttons for staring spells during this 24-hour section.
Background:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Abundant stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  Of note, sleep was relatively disrupted on the 1st day, but the patient seemed to be having more extensive stage 2 sleep early in the morning on the 24th.  In stage 2 sleep, occasional beta spindles were noted.  REM sleep was noted during multiple sections of the overnight recording with multiple spontaneous brief arousals from REM sleep.  There may have been some snore artifact noted at other times, but the arousals from REM sleep were not associated with epileptiform activity or significant snoring that could be detected by the recording strategy employed.
Epileptiform seizures:  None.
Pushbuttons:  On the 24th, there were 17 push button events.  Two of these were practice pushbuttons.  These events span primarily around 12:19 p.m., but standard time from 12:07 p.m. until 1:57 p.m., and then again 3:31, 4:32, and 7:18:45.  The patient is communicative and conversing with the nurse during the blinking spells.  He is awake during all of them.  After sometime, the nursing staff does not enter for every spell, but the patient can be seen clearly involved and engaged in activities and in some cases talking on the phone.  No epileptiform features were identified with the push buttons.  The EEG consistently demonstrates a normal awake pattern, although he does have some increase in heart rate.  For the 1:57 p.m. event, the patient does demonstrate a clear change in heart rate with a somewhat irregular heart rate at the end.
Epileptiform Detections:  Rare epileptiform detections were noted exclusively in sleep in this section of the record.  They are primarily seen in stage 2 sleep and include frontally predominant 2.5 to 4 Hz spike and wave activity as well as a isolated spike and wave activity.  With review using an average reference, some of the isolated spikes demonstrate a maximum between FC and F3.
Heart rate 60 to 90 to 130 BPM bpm
IMPRESSION:  This 48 hour EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
An interictal EEG, which demonstrates spike and wave and slow spike and wave activity, at this time, exclusively in sleep, similar to the previous EEG monitoring from 2006 to 2010.
Some spike and wave activity demonstrates L FC maximum.
Multiple episodes of blinking, involuntary blinking noted and wakefulness.  No EEG change noted. Patient is awake and alert for all
On rare occasions, an irregular heart rate.
Disrupted sleep with multiple arousals from REM sleep.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No epileptiform features were noted in association with the patient staring and blinking.  The irregular heart rate was also noted without clinical symptoms and referral for Cardiology consultation may be considered.






