AGE: 20 y.o.
SEX: male
DATE OF STUDY: 12/17/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy EEG #: 15-1829
HISTORY:
20 y.o. male with a history of sleep deprivation seizures referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
ibuprofen (ADVIL) 200 mg tablet, Take 200 mg by mouth every 6
.hours as needed for Pain.
meloxicam (MOBIC) 7.5 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily. No current facility-administered medications for this visit.
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a	technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive,but somewhat disorganized and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate
amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal
anterior-to-posterior gradient.	Wakefulness is characterized by
·a symmetric and reactive 7-8.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.	There is excess theta in wakefulness
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is not captured, although the study was extended slightly
Mild generalized slowing is present in wakefulness.	No focal slowing is present.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation·: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces scant symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 104 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is a mildly abnormal	routine EEG.
Mild disorganization
Mild background slowing
There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
The features described above are non-specific and can be seen in toxic or metabolic encephalopathy or post ictal state.
This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy. A follow up study, when the patient is more rested, may be considered



