History:	58 year old man who has a history of seizures, now with fluctuating mental status/
neurological exam.
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~22 hours from 4/26/2015 till 4/27/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Early in the recording, there is no clear PDR or AP gradient and the  background activity is
characterized by a mixture of polymorphic diffuse theta and delta activity.  As the recording
progresses, weak 7-8 Hz polymorphic theta activity appears posteriorly and degree of polymorphic
delta activity lessens.  Sleep is characterized by diffuse polymorphic theta activity, brief periods of
discontinuity and occasional left sided sleep-spindle-like waveforms.
There is paucity of faster frequencies over the right, especially right temporal region.  No clinical or
electrographic seizures were present.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
No electrographic seizures
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric, especially over the temporal region
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL ~22-hour continuous video  EEG due to mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing
and continuous focal right hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the temporal region.
Diffuse slowing is etiologically nonspecific indicator of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  Degree of slowing lessens as the recording progresses.  Continuous focal slowing is
indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were
present




