CLINICAL HISTORY:  74 year old woman who developed confusion with left sided weakness while on vacation, twitching of the left hand, previously evaluated for subclinical seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient has no seizures recognized by the patient, technologist, or the computer during the record.  There are intermittent problems with the system, at one point in the overnight record the jack box seemed to have been unplugged.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There are generous sections of the record where the EEG demonstrates a well organized symmetric reactive 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  There are other sections, particularly as the patient drifts off to sleep where focal slowing characterized by relative rhythmic 3-5 Hz activity is noted in the right temporal region with a generous field of spread.
In sleep, there are rare, high amplitude right temporal sharp waves with a generous field of spread.  Particularly around 5:30 p.m. there is broadly contoured delta in the right temporal region, nearly isoelectric at T2 and T4, but with a broad field between T4 and T2.  This has a relatively generous field throughout the right frontal temporal region with a nearly positivity at P4.  The overall sharp wave does seem to be maximum at T4 with generous spread to T6.  There is some variability and some of them are more of a periodic delta or gradually merging in and out of a sharp wave.
By the morning and later afternoon of April 25, 2012 there are some more significant problems with the quality of the electrode, but overall the EEG continues to demonstrate a pattern with reduction in focal slowing, periodic delta, and sharp waves particularly in wakefulness.
HR:    80 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This long term video EEG monitoring, as well as the series of EEGs overall demonstrate a significant improvement in the focal slowing from the right hemisphere, as well as the periodic epileptiform activity.  This LTM session did not identify any clinical or electrographic seizures.



