CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 53-year-old woman with a past medical history of seizures since approximately 2008, now with intermittent episodes of agitation and confusion, concerning for seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Current antiepileptic medication is Vimpat.
CONDITIONS OF RECORDING:  This is a continuous video EEG recording performed using the 10-20 standard system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes as well as a single EKG lead.  Alarms, medical staff, and nursing staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is a right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower wave forms over the right hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere consists of low to moderate amplitude 9 to 10 Hz alpha with preserved anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere consists of 7 to 9 Hz activity with weak anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Additional right hemispheric polymorphic theta and delta are captured.  Normal sleep architecture consisting of sleep spindles is observed.  The right hemisphere contains intermittent independent epileptiform discharges.  These sharp waves followed by a slow wave are located over the right frontal/anterior temporal region with phase reversal over the F8 electrode, as well as right mid-temporal region with phase reversal over the T6 electrode, as well as right posterior quadrant/occipital region with phase reversal over P4, 2 electrodes.  Right posterior quadrant/occipital epileptiform discharges are the most prevalent.  Additionally, right posterior quadrant/occipital epileptiform discharges occur in brief, from about 1 to 9 second, ictal runs (FIRDAs).  There is frequent movement artifact throughout the recording; however, no clear electrographic seizures are captured.  After approximately 5:00 p.m., multiple right hemispheric leads are disconnected as the recording progresses, so during those portions of the monitoring, monitoring of the right hemisphere is not reliable.  Persistent tachycardia is noted on the single EKG lead.
FINDINGS:
Focal right hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the right temporal region.
Intermittent independent right hemispheric epileptiform discharges that occur over the right frontotemporal region, right mid-temporal region, and right posterior quadrant/occipital region.  Epileptiform discharges over the right posterior quadrant/occipital region are most common.
BIRDs, brief ictal rhythmic discharges.  These occur over the right occipital/posterior quadrant region and they last from about 1 second to about 9 seconds.  No clear electrographic seizures are captured.  Lead artifact after approximately 5:00 p.m., majority of right hemispheric leads are disconnected and no reliable information about right hemisphere activity can be made after about 5:00 p.m.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is a very abnormal, greater than 12 hour, continuous video EEG due to focal right hemispheric slowing and intermittent multifocal right hemispheric epileptiform discharges that are most common over the right posterior quadrant/occipital region.  These findings indicate focal right hemispheric cerebral dysfunction that is most pronounced over the right posterior quadrant/occipital region.  When compared to the recording from the prior day, overall frequency of epileptiform discharges has increased; however, no clear electrographic seizures are captured.  After approximately 5:00 p.m., a large number of right hemispheric leads are disconnected and no reliable conclusions about right hemispheric activity can be made after that time.  These findings were discussed with the Neurology consult team.



