CLINICAL HISTORY: 50 year old left handed woman with epilepsy with 4 to 5 seizures
per day which are tonic-clonic with loss of consciousness and incontinence.
MEDICATIONS: Tegretol.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20
system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic
stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG is relatively
high amplitude, disorganized. The alpha rhythm is slower approximately 7 Hz. Although
hyperventilation is not performed, as the patient relaxes and becomes a little drowsy,
there are more prominent bursts of rhythmic frontal delta activity. Left frontal or frontal
temporal and nearly hemispheric spike and wave activity are noted. High amplitude left
anterior temporal spike and slow wave complexes are noted some of which seem to
have spread to the right hemisphere. There are handfuls that start on the left and
spread to the right. There are 1 or 2 which also seem to be bifrontal in nature. There is
prominent eye blink artifact giving the appearance of almost a frontally predominant
generalized spike and wave activity but when the activity is looked at more carefully, it is
eye blink plus the left anterior temporal high amplitude spike. A handful of discharges
occur on the right before the left. There are also some that are clearly unilateral on the
right but the majority are on the left. As the patient becomes drowsy, confounding eye
movement artifact is decreased. Photic stimulation elicits a driving response.
HR: 78bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Background slowing and disorganization.
2. Epileptiform activity which includes left anterior temporal spike and slow wave
complexes.
3. Less frequent right anterior temporal sharp waves.
4. Some sharp waves which seem to be bilateral in the frontal region, maximum on
the left and are questionable underlying left temporal focal slowing partially
obscured by artifact.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is a very epileptiform EEG compatible with a
focalization related mechanism for epilepsy. Additional recording may be helpful to


