CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 50-year-old male with traumatic brain injury in the 1980s, seizure free for the last year, but at times has memory problems.
MEDICATIONS:  Carbamazepine.
INTRODUCTION:  A 1-hour digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  This is an awake and a sleep record with hyperventilation and photic stimulation.  The patient was awake, alert, and interactive throughout the awake sections of the record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Drowsiness is characterized by an increase in beta with transition to stage II sleep with vertex waves and spindles.
Notable in this record are interictal epileptiform discharges and bursts of slowing.  The bursts are high amplitude from the left hemisphere particularly frontotemporal and frontocentral.  In sleep, they are more of a burst of rhythmic frontal 2 hertz delta with associated sharp wave, but in wakefulness, the bursts are a bit more left hemispheric/left temporal.  Some are seen a little bit more left frontal.  Others are lower voltage and more discreet.
Hyperventilation and drowsiness seem to accentuate the epileptiform activity, which may occur in brief bursts lasting 3-5 seconds.  No changes in level of awareness were noted with the bursts.
There are a handful of bursts or sharp waves, which spread to involve the right frontal region.
Photic stimulation elicited bilateral driving.
Heart rate 78 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Bursts of left hemispheric epileptiform activity as well as left frontal and left anterior temporal sharp waves and spikes.
Bursts of bifrontal delta and/or sharp waves and spikes.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Epileptiform activity noted in this record is more vigorous than in previous studies.  The patient had no impairment of awareness with a brief bursts of focal slowing and sharp waves.  These findings may be correlated with clinical history.



