CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 40-year-old, left-handed woman with life-long refractory epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, others.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS – TIME 13:33: The patient is awake and cooperative in her bed. She has nearly continuous, rhythmic delta activity despite significant movement and other artifacts.  This seems to be maximum in the temporal regions, right greater than left, with right anterior temporal sharp and slow wave activity.  When the patient is able to rest comfortably, this is prominent, but if she moves about, it becomes more difficult to define.
SEIZURE DATE & TIME 2/12/03 – 23:19: The patient is asleep. In sleep, there is nearly continuous right temporal focal slowing with sharp waves.  The sharp waves are in trains in sleep.  The activity starts out with continuous focal delta from the right temporal region, with a generous field of spread and frequent sharp and slow wave activity.  As the activity continues, some of it seems to spread to involve the left temporal region.  The patient remains asleep through this relatively prolonged discharge with brief arousals at 23:20:47. At 23:20:57, again a brief alerting is identified by the EEG with eye movement and intermittent posterior dominant rhythm.
The patient is briefly awake at 23:19:18.  At 23:19:38, again the same rhythmic, repetitive sharp waves and rhythmic right temporal delta is identified.  By 23:22:38, the activity seems to be spreading to the left temporal region.  There is an arousal associated with this.  The arousal seems to terminate the epileptiform activity and none of the typical clinical correlates that were seen with the other seizures with moaning, brief stiffening, and posturing on the left with circular movements on the right were seen.  By 23:24:29, this same rhythmic, right temporal slowing and sharp activity has returned.  This remains through until the close of the epoch at 23:28.
SEIZURE DATE & TIME 2/13/03 – 1:19 and 1:22:08 AM: The patient is asleep.  There is a nurse at the bedside and the nurse has noted that intermittently the patient appears to be confused during the course of the night, but does not really understand how to test the patient.  At 1:21, there is delta activity in the T1-T2 electrodes bilaterally.  The patient seems to be in a very light stage of sleep.  At 1:21:20, the patient stirs from sleep. She is sleeping on her left side, she moans and lifts her head.  She looks to the right.  She makes circular movements with her right arm and her left arm remains postured as was seen in other seizures.  Despite significant amounts of muscle and movement artifact underneath this, there is rhythmic activity.  By 1:21:39, there is clear-cut ictal activity and this includes 7 Hz activity, which is identified in the temporal regions.  Because of the electrode artifacts described above, it is not adequately localized.  The patient is lying back.  She is not moving the left arm until 1:21:48.  When she does move the left arm, the left hand is in a clenched posture.  She sits up at 1:22:51. The nurse rubs the patient’s shoulders, but doesn’t seem to realize that the patient has had a seizure.  The patient lies down and drifts off to sleep.  The EEG at 1:24:40 demonstrates diffuse, high amplitude delta compatible with a postictal state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: During this portion of the record, the patient has had some seizures earlier in the day. She doesn’t recall the seizures and she is somewhat slightly confused prior to the onset of the seizure.
SEIZURE DATE & TIME 2/13/03 – 17:08: As the seizure begins to trace, the patient is off camera.  She has the same vocalizations as seen in previous seizures at 17:08:20.  Unfortunately, at the start of the seizure, the EEG becomes obscured with muscle and movement artifact, which lasts 17 seconds in duration.  Even with the use of HFF, the EEG is difficult to resolve, but there does appear to be some rhythmic 3 to 4 Hz activity in the T2-T4 electrodes seen as early as 17:08:26.  By 17:08:37, there is a more clear-cut ictal pattern.  There is rhythmic, repetitive, alpha/theta frequency activity, which is intense on the right mid-to-anterior temporal region and slower frequency activity, 3 to 4 Hz from the left temporal region. This activity is clearly maximum in the temporal regions, but does involve the right central parietal region at 17:08:43.  The patient remains off camera throughout the seizure.  By 17:08:50, both hemispheres demonstrate rhythmic 6 to 8 Hz activity, most intense in the temporal region.  The activity seems to be slowing a bit by 17:09.  At 17:09:20, it is clearly slowing to delta frequency activity in the T1-T2 electrodes.  The seizure appears to be over by 17:09:40 for a total seizure duration of approximately 1 minute 20 seconds.  In the postictal section, the patient remains off camera.  The background shows significant slowing as well as artifact.  By 17:10:39, she is successfully removing her electrodes, which was an identical behavior to her other seizures.  No additional viable recording is possible to identify after this.  There are remaining electrodes seen, but the quality of the record is compromised.
HR:  96 BPM.
IMPRESSION FOR LTM: Abnormal continuous video EEG monitoring due to:
Multiple complex partial seizures with similar behavioral correlates but without clear scalp lateralization or localization.  The seizures were generally stereotypic in terms of complex partial in terms of the behavior; however, unfortunately because of the stiffening, the initial 10 to 15 seconds were obscured.  When there is scalp lateralization or localization, the localization seems to be right temporal and the later behavior would support a focus from the right hemisphere, although the early behavior didn’t always identify this with either moaning or on one occasion sitting up abruptly and clenching of the hands.
Independent right anterior temporal spike and slow wave activity, which increases dramatically in the time around the patient’s seizures.
At points, continuous right temporal focal slowing particularly around the time of the patient’s seizures.
Occasional left temporal spike and slow wave activity and occasional left temporal focal slowing particularly around the times that this patient has experienced seizures.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This tracing supports a partial mechanism for epilepsy.




