History:	PT PRESENTS WITH H/O SZ ONSET 9/11 , WITH LT ARM SHAKING NO LOC PT
STATES 3 IN 1 DAY, FOUND TO HAVE TUMOR. SURGERY 9/11.////

11/6/13 LAST SZ AUG/SEPT 2010 HAD TUMOR REMOVED AND COILING OF R
FRONTAL CENTRAL REGION. DIAGNOSED WITH LUNG CA.
Medications:	Dilantin, Zofran, Protonix, Ambien
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 7-7.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric beta activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  There is excess diffuse 6-7 Hz theta activity during wakefulness.  During
brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right centroparietal region (maximum at P4)
during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  There is right hemispheric breach artifact.  No
epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.  HR is 65.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right parietal
Breach artifact, right hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of diffuse background slowing and slow
alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  Intermittent focal slowing in the right centroparietal region.  This finding is indicative
of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.
Breach artifact is consistent with a history of craniotomy.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a
routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.


