CLINICAL HISTORY: 70 year old female with a MCA CVA 4 days ago, in to evaluate
for status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Dilantin, Phenobarbital
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient appears ill, has her face wrapped in a gauze and is poorly responsive. This record includes 120 minutes baseline and 4 hours of EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates a markedly
abnormal background with rhythmic theta and delta. There is frontally predominant
rhythmic delta activity, but there is also a very prominent focus of right frontal spike and
slow wave and sharp and slow wave activity. This is a high amplitude discharge. In
addition, there are a handful of left anterior temporal sharp waves observed as well.
There is no Indication in the EEG provided that the patient received therapy and the
overall duration of the piece of EEG provided is 4 hours and 20 minutes. Over the
course of the recording, however, the repetitive epileptiform activity in the right frontal
region begins to abate. It is clearly slowly by 12:20 in the afternoon. The seizures
seem to have stopped by 12:33. Intermittent sharp waves are noted in the section of
the record that follows, but they appear to be ebbing. The overall pattern transitions to
a much lower, slower voltage pattern with a mixture of rhythmic theta and delta, as well
as occasional bursts of right FT sharp waves.
HR: 60-80 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Appearance of electrographic status epilepticus which responds to therapy.
2. Marked background slowing.
3. A pattern of increasing slowing over the course of the record provided of unclear
nature.
4. Right Fronto temporal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Little information is provided, but Ativan was given during
the EEG particularly at 12:20 and 12:24 and 12:27 and again 12:36. This was effective
with the third dose of Ativan clearly having an impact and resolution of the status



