CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 27-year-old woman with refractory epilepsy following herpes encephalitis.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, Ativan, phenobarbital, others.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed in the long term monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient had had a recent cluster of generalized tonic clonic seizures.
TECHNICAL:  This is a technically satisfactory record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Seizures:  No clinical seizures were noted by the patient, nor our computer.
Interictal EEG:  The background EEG begins as a diffusely slow pattern with generous theta and prominent beta.  Over the course of the recording for this post ictal patient, the patient is a bit more consistently awake with more of a rhythmic theta pattern.
Interictal spikes:  Interictal epileptiform activity is identified and includes right temporal sharp and slow wave complexes as well as spike and slow wave complexes.  There are occasional bifrontal sharp waves noted in wakefulness.  In sleep, there is a little less of the right temporal sharp waves, although there are some left frontal sharp waves.  In sleep, there are more hemispheric sharp waves or bifrontal sharp waves noted at the midline.   Other features of the sleep recording include vertex waves, K complexes and spindles.
Heart rate:  72 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This 24-hour long term video electroencephalogram monitoring was remarkable for:
Interictal epileptiform activity in the temporal regions, a bit more prominent in the right temporal regions in the post ictal or awake sections of the record.
Frontal spike and slow wave complexes which may be bifrontal or maximum on the right or left.  These are a bit more common in sleep.
Background slowing and disorganization.
Occasional bursts of paroxysmal slowing in the temporal regions right or left.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are similar to previous studies and support a focal mechanism for epilepsy.  Unfortunately, there is potentially more than 1 focus for this patient's refractory seizures.  If additional information is needed, a long term EEG monitoring session may be appropriate.



