History:	38 year old man with a history of limbic encephalitis, now with worsening memory
and a reported seizure in 3/2015.
Medications:	no AEDs
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10.5-11Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
A single ~ 36 second focal seizure is captured.  Clinically, it starts with patient having slight
difficulty staying a year and bringing both hand to his face.  Then lips smacking and chewing
movements are observed.  He remains alert.  He is able to state  correctly the location, his name
and count to 10.  Additionally, patient's heart rate increases from the resting ~100 bpm to ~130
bpm during the seizure.  There is ~ 10-11 second delay between clinical symptoms and EEG
change.  Electrographically, ~5 Hz moderate-to-high amplitude rhythmic bilateral anterior theta
activity is noted.  This activity increases in amplitude and decreases in frequency.  This change is
more profound over the right.  Post-ictally, there is right anterior polymorphic delta and mild
attenuation.  As patient falls asleep, 8-second run of rhythmic ~ 0.5 Hz LEFT anterior temporal
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does
not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, one, bilateral anterior, ~36 seconds, pt able to count, increase in HR
Sharp waves, left temporal, anterior, brief run at 0.5 Hz
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 40 minute EEG due to a single focal seizure and several
left anterior temporal epileptiform discharges. Patient able to speak and count during the event,
also lip smacking/ chewing movements are present as well as increase in heart rate from ~ 100 bpm
to ~130 bpm.  First EEG change is noted ~ 10-11 seconds after the onset of clinical symptoms and
appears to  be bilateral anterior in onset with more prominence over the right as seizure progresses.
Based on the above findings there is a potential left anterior temporal epileptogenic focus and
independent right anterior temporal focus.  These findings were conveyed to the ordering physician.
sleep spindles appear.sharp waves is captured (at ~11:44:31 AM).





