CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 66 -year-old male with a history of seizures, alcoholism, who now presents with change in mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include Dilantin and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Conditions of the recording:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with faster waveforms over the right hemisphere. The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere reaches 8 Hz theta activity.  The anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the right hemisphere is weak.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere which is approximately 7 to 7.5 Hz theta activity and there is no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the left hemisphere.  Additional left hemispheric polymorphic delta activity is observed, especially over the left frontotemporal region.  During sleep, the degree of left hemispheric slowing increases.  Several brief, approximately 30 second electrographic seizures are captured.  These are characterized by left frontal rhythmic sharply contoured delta activity admixed with discrete small amplitude sharp waves.   An example of such seizure occurs at approximately 3:12 p.m.  Additionally, frequent lower amplitude left frontal sharp waves are captured with maximal scalp negativity over FP1 electrode.  As the recording progresses, these discharges become more periodic at approximately 1 Hz and represent PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges).  Hyperventilation is not performed.  Photic stimulation does not result in additional abnormalities.
FINDINGS:
Several brief focal left frontal electrographic seizures.
Left frontal sharp waves __________slow waves and left frontal 1 Hz PLEDs.
Moderate left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left frontotemporal region.
Mild to moderate diffuse background slowing.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 22 minute EEG due to mild to moderate diffuse slowing, focal moderate left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left frontotemporal region, left frontal epileptiform discharges that are at times periodic and several brief focal left frontal electrographic seizures.  Mild diffuse slowing indicates etiological nonspecific mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, focal left hemispheric slowing and focal left frontal epileptiform discharges and seizures indicate focal cerebral dysfunction likely structural in etiology.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology primary team and the patient will be placed on long term monitoring.
DT:07/17/2013 17:32:03



