DURATION OF STUDY:  Study date 03/26/2013 through 03/27/2013, for a total of 15 hours.  However, due to technical difficulties only 5 hours could be reviewed.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  39-year-old woman with episode of bilateral arm stiffness and gaze deviated to the right.  Has 4-5 seizures in the past month, screaming, with a history of Lennox-Gastaut, mental retardation.  Follow-up EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Ativan, famotidine, Lovenox, topiramate, Flagyl, Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement with the addition of anterior temporal single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software in addition to nurse's notes were used to review the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm and frontocentral beta.  Overall, there are theta delta mixed frequencies intermingled with multiple multifocal spikes which I will describe in Abnormal Discharges.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Multifocal spikes seen at O1, O2, T6, Fp1, Fp2, T3, and P4.  However, the spikes are mainly seen at O1 and O2 and Fp1/Fp2.
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts seen almost continuously throughout the recording.
SEIZURES:  During the record, there are multiple seizures which in the EEG appear to begin suddenly and display rhythmic, sharply contoured theta intermixed with beta that at times appears to be maximal frontally and then centrally with an overlying rhythmic occipital sharp focus.  The maximal focus or origin of the seizure is unclear.  It is also atypical as it does not appear to evolve as it suddenly starts, remains in the EEG at almost this irregular but continuous frequency, and then appears to slowly dissipate.  During these discharges, the patient appears to move her head side to side and sometimes moves her arms in a wild fashion.  On 1 occasion, her mouth appeared to twitch in the video.  The duration of these episodes can be anywhere from 1 or 2 minutes to prolonged 38-minute seizure.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to multiple seizures with unclear origin and multifocal spikes.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of multiple generalized seizures with unclear origin as well as multiple areas of irritability and structural dysfunction as well as diffuse dysfunction consistent with diagnosis of symptomatic generalized epilepsy.
These findings were communicated to the primary team as soon as the EEG was read.



