REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 77-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, first-degree AV block, who presents to the hospital after witnessed seizure activity at home with urinary incontinence found to be hypertensive in the emergency room.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY:  Some muscle artifact.
MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin, calcium carbonate, and Lipitor.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included photic stimulation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a mainly slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 7-8 Hz which appears to be slightly reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta seen in limited wakefulness.  The patient does appear to be in stage I sleep.  But overall, the EEG is consistent with mild to moderate slowing of 5-7 Hz with intermittent bursts of delta which I will describe next.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Mild to moderate generalized slowing at 5-7 Hz with an amplitude of 20-40 microvolts almost continuously throughout the recording that was improving slightly.
Burst of generalized slow waves maximal frontally consistent with frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA) seen frequently throughout the recording.
Bilateral anterior temporal F8/T4 and F7/T3 independent delta seen at times at 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to moderate generalized slowing, bursts of FIRDA, and independent bilateral anterior temporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG revealed evidence of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction in addition to independent bilateral anterior temporal cerebral dysfunction, both of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.



