History:	SKULL DEFECT// SECONDARY TO BRAIN TUMOR// CENT RIGHT AREA/// IMPED
HIGH COULD NOT RUB HARD ON PT HEAD
1/28/14 PT HAS RECURRENT EVENTS APPROXIMATELY 5 TO 10 MIN APART LASTING
APPROXIMATELY 1 MIN EACH.
Medications:	Keppra, Phenobarbital
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake
Description:
Waking background was characterized by a 25-40uV, 8 Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates with eye
opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity was present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.
There was excess theta during wakefulness.
Almost continuous polymorphic delta activity was present in the right central and temporal region
during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Three episodes of focal onset electrographic and
clinical seizures were captured during this recording. The onset was localized to the right central
area (C4).  The electrographic seizure was recorded beginning with rhythmic 6-7 Hz activity in the
right central region and evolving into faster frequencies. It subsequently spreads to right temporal
region and then left hemisphere. It ended abruptly with postictal  suppression of the background.
Each episode lasted between 2 and 3 minutes on average.  The clinical correlate was
unresponsiveness with eyes open followed by forced head turning to the left associated with some
right arm shaking (noted under the cover) and left arm automatism.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 100-110 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right temporal, mid
Diffuse slowing, rhythmic, Partial status epilepticus
Seizure, frequent, electrographic, right central, Simple partial and complex partial
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm. These
findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  continuous focal
slowing in the right central and temporal regions.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural
lesion in this region.  several clinical and electrographic seizures arising from the right central
region.  This finding is indicative of an epileptogenic focus in the right cerebral hemisphere.
These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

