History:	59 year old woman with a history of seizures, now presents with increase in seizure
frequency.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by low-to-moderate amplitude 10.5-11 Hz alpha rhythm, which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present,
maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-
7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
Polymorphic and rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA) is frequently observed over the left temporal
region during wakefulness and increases during drowsiness.  Two focal electrographic seizures are
captured.  Each lasts ~ 1 minute.  No clinical correlate is reported by the EEG technologist.  The
patient is not formally tested during these seizures.  They occur during drowsiness.  Seizures start
with rhythmic left anterior temporal delta activity, most pronounced over F7/t1 region.  It gradually
increases in amplitude, becomes more prominent and slightly increases in frequency from ~2 Hz to
~2.5-3 Hz.  There is some reflection  to the left parasagittal leads and left lateral/ temporal leads.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, two, left temporal, anterior, each ~ 1 min long.  Occur out of drowsiness
Focal slowing, rhythmic, intermittent, moderate, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, moderate, left temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 28-minute EEG due to intermittent focal left anterior
temporal slowing, often rhythmic, and 2 focal left anterior temporal seizures that occur during
drowsiness and do not have a clear clinical correlate. These findings are indicative of an
epileptogenic focus in left anterior temporal region, and given the clinical history of partial
seizures, are consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy.  These findings were
relayed to the ordering physician at the time of the record review.


