CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 68-year-old male with massive bilateral subarachnoid hemorrhage.  The patient did felt declining mental status between Friday and Saturday on July 19th with movements of the right hand and stiffening of abdominal muscles.

MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Nimodipine, Keppra, lacosamide, and midazolam.

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient was intubated, with the ventriculostomy and sedated.  The patient was intermittently responsive with spontaneous, purposeful movements of the left leg more than the right and withdrawing movements.
During this section of the record, none of the previously described episodes of left head deviation and abdominal muscles stiffing were noted.  Occasional decerebrate posturing was noted.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The EEG demonstrates a variable pattern.  Some sections of the record demonstrate a pattern with lower voltage, attenuated activity on the right and slow delta on the left with eye movements.  Intermittent more rhythmic bursts of delta were noted from the left hemisphere.  These were not sustained and did not have significant frequency evolution.

At noon on 21st, the midazolam drip was initiated. At the time of the initiation, the EEG was relatively quiet with a little bit less in the way of the arrhythmic delta activity, although this was seen again at 12:35 p.m.  In addition, around this time the patient had chest PT, which served to alert the patient with an increased in eye opening, but also produced artifact in the background.  Initial rate of the midazolam was 0.5 mg/hour, increasing at 5 p.m. to 1.0 mg  Slow, somewhat periodic 1.2 to 1.5 Hz delta waxes and wanes throughout the right hemisphere. It was best seen at slow paper speed.  Rare, broadly contoured, left frontocentral sharp waves were noted in the record as well.

Tactile stimulation served to alert the patient with an increased in eye movement.  The left hemispheric slow periodic delta activity seems to drop out in response to stimuli

By the morning of the 22nd, the periodic delta activity seemed to be abating, although there was a fair amount of artifact.

Heart rate 81 bpm.

IMPRESSION AND CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The second day of continuous video EEG monitoring is remarkable for;
1. Prominent asymmetry between the 2 hemispheres with a relatively low voltage in variant pattern on the right.
2. From the left a pattern of intermittent rhythmic delta alternating with more low voltage, suppressed pattern.
3. Rare, broadly contoured, left frontocentral sharp waves.
Additional EEG monitoring will be performed, during midazolam reduction

