
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 33-year-old man with a history of seizures.  More recently the seizures have increased.  Seizures are characterized as generalized tonic clonic convulsions with associated loss of consciousness, tongue biting and urinary incontinence.  These episodes last several minutes.  There is postictal confusion.

MEDICATIONS:  Current medications are carbamazepine and Depakote.

CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single electrocardiogram lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  During maximal wakefulness the posterior dominant rhythm reaches 8 Hz alpha activity.  The posterior dominant rhythm attenuates with eyes opening.  There is a weak and unstable anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Additional polymorphic diffuse theta activity is captured.  During drowsiness the posterior dominant rhythm attenuates.  Several epileptiform discharges are captured.  They are moderate to high amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves with phase reversal over F7 and T1 electrodes as well as F3 and C3 electrodes.  Less frequent independent sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured over F8 and T2 electrodes.  Hyperventilation produces no change in the background.  Stepped photic stimulation results in no change in the background.

FINDINGS:  Independent left anterior temporal greater than right anterior temporal sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves.

IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal awake and drowsy 27 minute EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and independent occasional left greater than right anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.  Mild diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific cerebral dysfunction.  Independent epileptiform discharges could be secondary due to independent potential epileptogenic foci in the left anterior temporal and right anterior temporal regions.  No electrographic seizures are captured.



