History:	76 year old woman with left parietal ICH and persistent confusion . A spot EEG revealed recurrent seizures.
Medications: Sedation: EEG Type: Technique:
Keppra, Dilantin, Ativan
Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for -14 hours from 3/09/2015 till 3/10/2015.  Nursing­ initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.  All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient. During maximal stimulation the background consists of a mixture of polymorphic low amplitude theta, delta and underriding beta activity. As the recording progresses, the background becomes more attenuated consisting  primarily of low amplitude delta and beta activity.
Some sleep spindles (right>left) are seen early in the recording.
Frequent left posterior quadrant seizures are captured.  They last 10-30 seconds and occur several times per hour.  By the end of the recording, they lessen to 5-20 seconds.  Their frequency varies throughout the recording.  Early on seizures begin with rhythmic 6-12 Hz activity in the posterior quadrant region and evolving into 2-4 Hz activity. They remain over the same region with minimal spread.  There is no clinical correlate documented on the video.  Additionally,  there are frequent brief 1-5 second left posterior quadrant runs that resemble the activity that is seen in the above seizures but they do not have clear evolution
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, left posterior quadrant
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL  EEG because of frequent subclinical electrographic seizures arising from the left posterior quadrant region. These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region, and are consistent with subclinical status epilepticus. In addition there is continuous focal slowing in the left mid to posterior temporal region. This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region. These findings were conveyed to the primary team.




