History:	31  Y/O FEMALE WITH PMHX PCOS, PRE HTN AND GRAND MAL SZ THAT
STARTED AT AGE 18. LAST SZ  WAS 10 DAYS AGO. SZ WAS DESCRIBED AS
SHAKING AND STIFFENING WITH INCONT. AND TONGUE BITE.
Medications:	Topiramate, Carbatrol
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
sleep spindles and K complexes appear.  There are frequent epileptiform discharges during sleep
There is intermittent focal slowing over the left centroparietal region.  At several times during the 1
hour recording epoch, there are left sided, medium to high amplitude, PLEDs seen maximal at T5-
P3-C3. These occur with a variable frequency of 0.5 to 1.5 Hz across a 7 second epoch.  During
sleep there are frequent left centro-parietal sharp waves maximal at C3-P3. These are most
common in stage II sleep. These are either single waveforms or clusters of 2-4 in a row.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces minimal photic driving
Summary of Findings:
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), intermittent, left posterior quadrant
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left posterior quadrant
Sharp waves, intermittent, left posterior quadrant
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL prolonged, 1 hour EEG due to focal slowing, PLEDs, and sharps waves over
the left centroparietal region. Focal slowing, PLEDs, and sharps waves are strongly suggestive of a
structural brain lesion over the left centroparietal region with epileptiform potential.







