CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 19-year-old gentleman who presented with increased seizures.  Seizure onset at age 7 characterized by shaking of the hands and hitting of his legs. Patient is aware of when a seizure will occur.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote and Zonisamide.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the Long-term EEG Monitoring Unit using standing 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. Hyperventilation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG is symmetric and fairly well organized. There is a 9 Hz, 30 V posterior dominant alpha rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.  Occasional POSTS are seen.  The patient was hyperventilated for three to five minutes without inducing seizure activity or EEG correlates.
EVENTS on 9/24/03: Several push button events occurred.  The first event occurred at 12:45 PM.  The patient stated, “I feel like I am going to have a seizure.”  However, no seizure activity was observed and no EEG correlate was noted during that record.  The second and third events occurred at 1:10 PM and 4:25 PM respectively, with the patient pushing the button and again stating that he feels like he is going to have a seizure.  Again, no seizure activity or EEG correlates were recorded during either event. The last event occurred at 8:30 PM with the patient pushing the button and stating that he needs to have a bowel movement.  At that time, no special issues were noted and no EEG changes were seen.
The patient went to bed at of the night at 20:35 on 9/24, but did not go to sleep until after midnight. During sleep, in the right frontal temporal regions, sharp and slow waves were occasionally seen. Sleep was characterized by attenuation of the background with a mixture of frequencies with slow rolling eye movements, spindles, K complexes, and high amplitude slow delta activity.  The patient slipped into stage III sleep and brief stage IV and REM sleep.
HR:  66 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Rare sharp activity in the right frontotemporal regions.
SUMMARY OF 72-HOUR LTM AND CLINICAL CORRELATION: In wakefulness, no focal  features or epileptiform discharges were seen.  However, in sleep, rare right temporal and right frontal sharp waves were recorded, which may be partially responsible for the mechanism of epilepsy in this patient.  Clinically, the patient repeatedly reported that he felt as if he was going to have a seizure, but without EEG correlates.  This may be suggestive of the fact that the non-epileptiform seizures are also involved.  POSTS activity is a normal variant.




