CLINICAL HISTORY:   57 year old woman found down on May 13, 2012 for an abnormal amount of time with hypoglycemia at 40, as well as positive opiates and benzo's in the urine.  She now continues to be unresponsive.  She has a past medical history of left degenerative joint disease with total knee replacement, ventral hernia repair, gastric bypass, hypertension, hyperglycemia.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin and Vimpat.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Change in mental status.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive. Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely disorganized and slow background with no posterior dominant rhythm or frontal central beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz seen continuously with an amplitude of 20-60 mV.
Periodic triphasic, and at times, sharply contoured discharges at 1-2 Hz seen continuously throughout the record.  These periodic discharges at times appeared to have transiently maximality over the frontal and sometimes temporal regions, and at times have a very classic triphasic morphology.  In between some of these bursts there appears to be diffuse attenuation of the background.  During this recording the patient was stimulated once and there appeared to be muscle artifact after it, but no clear improvement of the frequencies in the brain.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Generalized slowing and periodic sharp transient and triphasic.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is not specific in regards to etiology.  The generalized periodic and sharp transients can be seen as part of a metabolic disturbance, and hypoxic or anoxic injury.  These are not specific for any specific disease.  In addition, during this recording the patient did not appear to have stimulus in those rhythmic ictal discharges as this appeared to be continuously occurring throughout the recording.



