History:	54 year old man with a history of right sided craniectomy for subdural hematoma,
subsequent cardiopulmonary arrest, who on 12/29/2013 was observed to have ~15-
20 minute convulsion.
Medications:	Propofol,  Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for  24 hours from ~7 am on 12/31/2013 till ~ 7 am on
1/1/2014.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG
data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in
EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.   The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  Frequent periods of brief background discontinuity are noted
early in the recording and later during periods of quiescence.  There is right to left intrahemispheric
asymmetry with lower voltages over the left hemisphere.  The background is characterized by diffuse
polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Underriding fast activity is noted over the right hemisphere,
especially over the parasagittal leads.  Intermittent additional polymorphic delta activity is noted
over the right parasagittal leads.  No normal sleep architecture is present, but periods of quiescence
are observed and characterized by greater degree of discontinuity and generalized beta activity.
No electrographic seizures are noted.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, right, frontocentral
No electrographic seizures
Breach artifact, right
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour video EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse
background slowing with additional slowing over the right frontocentral region. Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and is consistent with
patient's history of right SDH and craniectomy.  Breach rhythm is seen in the skull defect.  No



electrographic seizures are present.  When compared to the prior 24-hour, this recording epoch
demonstrates less severe degree of diffuse slowing.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology
consult team.


