History:	63 Y/O FEMALE WITH S/P COILING R P COMM,S/P COILING OF LEFT ICA
ANEURYSM ORDERED EEG BECAUSE OF L SIDED DECREASING
MOVEMENT.
P/W HEADACHE, NECK PAIN, NAUSEA AND LIGHT HEADEDNESS. HX HTN, HLD,
Medications:
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  The delta activity is more prominent over the left hemisphere compared with the right.
No normal sleep architecture was present.
There is focal delta activity noted over the left hemisphere.  Rare left fronto-temporal sharp waves
are identified.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was minimal reactivity to
auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, rare, left frontotemporal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video-EEG because of diffuse background slowing and absent
alpha rhythm, focal left hemispheric slowing, and rare left fronto-temporal sharp waves.  These
findings are consistent with diffuse structural brain injury and focal left hemispheric brain injury with
epileptiform potential.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

DM2, HYPOTHYROIDISM, DEPRESSION. CT: SUBACUTE BLOOD IN…





