CLINICAL HISTORY:  70 year old right handed female with history of seizures, GERD, hyperlipidemia, cirrhosis, depression, chronic right PCA infarct, endocarditis, who presented with seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Lorazepam, Pantoprazole, Topamax, Metoprolol, Keppra.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video long term EEG was performed at bedside  this is the second 24 hours the patient unhooked himself and only 24 hours could be reviewed.  This was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness, but was lethargic and obtunded during the recording.  No activating procedures were performed.  Continuous spike wave detections upwards, as well as seizure detection software and nurses alert were used to review the recording, as well as I personally reviewed the record.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Again, during the last 24 hours of the recording the electrode artifact could not be reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with nor normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontal central beta.  The patient appears to move and become more agitated with increased muscle artifact throughout the recording, but no clear improvement in the faster frequencies of the recording.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen intermittently at F8/T4.
Focal slow waves seen in F8/T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 mV continuously.
Generalized slow waves seen at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-70 mV.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Focal sharp waves.
Slow waves seen in the right anterior temporal region.
Generalized slow waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the right anterior temporal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal structural dysfunction in the right anterior temporal region, which is consistent with a history of a known stroke.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology, but in this case it may be due at least in part to medication effect.  No seizures were seen.



