CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 40-year-old male with the diagnosis of multiple non-epileptic seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Zoloft, Rebetol, Singulair, Thiamine, Seroquel, Flovent, others, and 2 mg of Ativan.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. This is an awake and asleep record. The patient has multiple clinical events over the course of the night.  He also has dyskinetic movements, particularly involving the oral facial regions.
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP:  In early drowsiness, there is prominent, rhythmic mid-temporal theta activity, which is identified in vigorous bursts from the left or right with duration of bursts lasting as long as three to five seconds although many bursts are significantly shorter.  Stage II sleep is characterized by vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  While there are bursts of vigorous, rhythmic mid-temporal theta activity in drowsiness, in the transition to stage II sleep on rare occasions there are bursts more irregular with left temporal theta and mixed delta, which would not be considered a normal variant because of irregularity of the discharge and its presence into a deeper stage of sleep.  POSTS are seen in stage II sleep.
EVENT #1: Practice push button seen 16:37.  The patient is awake without epileptiform activity.
EVENT #2: Practice push button seen 16:47.  The patient is awake without epileptiform activity.
EVENT #3: Time 20:19:11.  The nurses enter and evaluate the patient.  They are under the impression that the alarm was pressed and in fact there is clearly a patient event mark on the video, however.  The behavior at this time is an awake individual with the patient’s typical dyskinetic movements of the face.  There are no involuntary movements of the arms or legs.  EEG demonstrates normal awake pattern.
EVENT #4: Time 20:38:44.  The patient presses the alarm.  He is having his typical extrapyramidal movements of the face.  As the recording continues, he shrugs his shoulders intermittently. This overall event, which begins at 20:38, has a long course and symptoms wax and wane with the nurses evaluating and examining the patient.  As the nurses spend more and more time with the patient, the motor activity increases.  Initially, he is having his typical oral facial dyskinesia.  As time goes on, he begins to have the intermittent jerking of the arms.  The nurses note that the legs demonstrate a flailing-type pattern and they adjust the camera at 20:41 to capture this.  The EEG demonstrates a normal awake pattern throughout with intermittent obscuration by muscle but an alpha rhythm that can be identified.  The nurse indicates on the video that she calls the house officer and the Ativan is ordered at 20:40:54.  The Ativan is given three minutes later.  By the time the Ativan is infusing, the patient’s behavior has essentially stopped and the EEG demonstrates a normal pattern.
EVENT #5: Time 20:59:57.  The patient is lying on his side.  He is awake. He pushes the button.  No clinical symptoms are noted and no electrographic features are identified.  The patient continues to push the button approximately every second until 20:59:54.  Then he yawns.  There are additional push button events at 21:08:00, again with a normal awake or slightly drowsy pattern.
There is a single burst of frontal beta at 02:45:45 that is identified from the left frontal region with a remarkably restricted field and may represent artifact.
HR:  72 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal 24-hour video EEG due to:
Rare bursts of irregular left temporal theta activity identified in the transition to stage II sleep.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This patient experienced multiple behavioral events without an EEG change.  The behaviors that were recorded here are behaviors more suggestive of a non-epileptic process and the EEG supports this.  This patient demonstrates dramatic, bilateral rhythmic temporal theta of drowsiness, but he also does have an abnormal EEG with irregular left temporal theta/delta in sleep. No events with eyes rolling back in the head were identified.




