CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 28-year-old left-handed woman with history of bipolar disease, who developed seizures at age 24 after 10 months treatment with Wellbutrin.  Previous EEG monitoring was in April 2013.  The patient presents with recurrent spells, which she has been told are nonepileptic and include aura of burnt toast and generalized tremulousness.
MEDICATIONS:  Zonisamide, Latuda, Cymbalta, Fioricet, and recent use of Keppra, lamotrigine, gabapentin, Maxalt, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  A 26-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient had 3 clinical events during the EEG with tremulousness and unresponsiveness.  Unfortunately, the machine was paused during the very first event.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the recording begins, the patient is awake with a 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  There is a small amount of background theta and the patient appears to be somewhat drowsy.  With stimulation and alerting, the overall background demonstrates a normal awake pattern.
EEG was paused at 9:07 when patient had a spell of abrupt onset of generalized tremulousness with alternating motor activity.  She was unresponsive to verbal commands and afterwards reported that she did not recall the event.  The EEG resumed at 9:11:48 at which point, the patient was not able to respond to questions.  The EEG pattern demonstrated a normal awake pattern.  The patient was quickly able to state where she was.  A minute or 2 later, she asked whether or not we had captured the spell.
Photic stimulation was performed after this, and produced a 2nd spell with 19 hertz stimulation.  The patient developed tremulousness and then stiffening.  She was given a code word to remember, which she did not recall.  Her heart rate increased to 120 bpm and the EEG demonstrated a normal awake pattern.  The patient reported that she bit the side of her tongue during the spell.  A third seizure was noted at 9:20:36 with oral guttural sounds and head bobbing.  The patient reported with this 3rd event that she bit her tongue.  The EEG did not demonstrate any epileptiform activity with this event.
Heart rate 110 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is remarkable for:
Three behavioral events, 2 well captured by this EEG without epileptiform activity.
The absence of any postictal changes or any impairment of awareness for the 1st seizure, which was not entirely captured.
A small amount of background theta.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No EEG signature was identified for any of the events, which did demonstrate bilateral motor activity and impairment of awareness.  In addition, there were no postictal features noted.  Ongoing EEG monitoring will be continued to search for epileptiform abnormalities.





