




Medications: Sedation: EEG Type: Technique:



54 YEAR OLD MAN WITH HISTORY OF SEIZURES, PRESENTS AFTER 4 GENERALIZED TONIC-CLONIC CONVULSIONS. NOW WITH ALTERED MENTAL STATUS AND RECURRENT SHAKING EPISODES.
Dilantin, Tramadol, Motrin, Metformin, Lovenox, Lisinopril None
Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic, obtunded



Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG technologists. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.  All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton event

Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 1OHz alpha rhythm, which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions. During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.

No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present. There are several clinical episodes associated with whole body shaking and rhythmic rocking movements that are not associated with a change in the background cerebral activity.  During these, the patients is unresponsive to commands by the R.N.

Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.

Summary of Findings:
Alpha rhythm, normal


Interpretation:
This is a NORMAL 24 hour video EEG, awake and drowsy.  No epileptiform discharges were present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information. The recurrent episodes of whole body shaking are not associated with a change
in the background cerebral activity. These may represent psychogenic non-epileptic seizures or another type of non-epileptiform movement disorder. Clinical correlation is suggested. These findings were



conveyed to the primary team.



