MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, Vimpat, Keppra, prednisone, Decadron and others.
HISTORY:  A 35-year-old male with granulomatous disease of the nervous system and adenopathy.  This is ongoing EEG monitoring for a patient, who may have been having seizures for many days prior to presentation in hospital.  Seizures characterized by head turning to the right, weakness on the left, or vibration sense to the left, and altered responsiveness.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  Because of the patient's escalating seizures, during this section of the record, the patient received increasing doses of phenobarbital.  The patient himself chose to discontinue EEG monitoring on the night of the 30th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The initial sections of the record demonstrates repetitive seizures with head turning to the right.  The seizures pattern in this section of the record is a little bit more stereotyped with periods of theta frequency activity in some occasions and other occasions the periods of faster frequency activity, maximum in the central regions, but present bilaterally.  The faster frequency activity is approximate 14 hertz and demonstrates evolution over as many as 10-20 seconds followed by more rhythmic theta.  Later in the seizure, the theta activity is clearly present on the left and some seizures and with more prominent and solid on the left and other cases seizures and symmetrically from both hemispheres.  Over the course of the recording, as the patient received increasing doses of phenobarbital, seizure started to spread out as infrequently as every 30-60 minutes.  At 9:30, the patient withdraws consent for ongoing EEG monitoring and having electrodes removed.
The interictal EEG begins with a more awake pattern with a well-defined alpha rhythm seen when the patient is drowsy.  Intermittent slowing is noted in the posterior regions, left or right.  Finally, with the use of sedative hypnotic drugs, the overall background demonstrates more background slowing.
Heart rate 80 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This continuous video EEG monitoring session, despite its limitations demonstrates significant improvement in the number of seizures over the last day of EEG recording.





