CLINICAL HISTORY: 62 year old female with metastatic rectal cancer, complex partial seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Keppra, Ativan, Versed.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is described as lethargic. On the morning of 3/8/2011, her mental status remains poor and she is having difficulty communicating as well as handling her secretions. With one channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is somewhat challenging due to artifact but demonstrates high amplitude right occipital parietal or occipital temporal spike and slow wave activity and polyspike and slow wave activity. The polyspike activity is seen in the posterior temporal and parietal regions. The activity from the right hemisphere includes a progressively slow and featureless pattern. After the administration of phenytoin at 19:08, the right hemisphere demonstrates progressive impairment with epileptiform activity over a suppressed background. The left hemisphere is moderately slow with a theta frequency pattern. There is some volume conduction from the epileptiform activity on the right to the left. The bursts of fast activity in the right occipital region persist. On some occasions throughout the night, muscle artifact can be seen in association with the bursts and on other occasions, the
epileptiform activity is not uniformly associated with contralateral left facial twitching. Sleep and wake patterns are identified with sleep identified at 23:43 and a much slower pattern seen from the left. The epileptiform activity persists with brief bursts and build up in sleep.
By 7:50 in the morning, the patient is more arousable. The epileptiform activity is clustering in brief bursts. Two mg Ativan is given at 8:55. Of note, in the morning, prior to the administration of Ativan, the patient is moving about, using her right side purposefully an attempting to communicate despite the epileptiform activity from the left.
HR: 90 bpm
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: This section of the EEG is compatible with an ongoing epileptiform process. Of note, intermittently the activity is increasingly suppressed on the right hemisphere which is worrisome for cerebral pathology.



