CLINICAL HISTORY:  Adult female with MRSA pneumonia, sepsis, decline in mental status, increasing left-sided weakness.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, Depakote, Keppra, Ativan, Versed, phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG and seizure and spike detection software.  The patient had 1 episode of left arm shaking at 3:28.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins, the patient is relatively awake with a lower voltage, but slow pattern on the left and a glimpse of a 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  High amplitude periodic complexes were noted from the left hemisphere with a polyphasic component and some frequency evolution.  At 3:39, around the time that the patient has a clinical event with the arm shaking, there is more muscle and a bit more periodicity but no definitive evolution.  In the initial sections of the record, the epileptiform activity more clearly waxes and wanes.
Versed is given around 4:00 p.m. producing a slowing of the periodic activity.  Phenobarbital was given over the course of the evening, again producing some slowing at least transiently.
Over the evening, after the phenobarbital, the patient is described as more awake and more alert.  She was awake at 3:45 a.m. and at that point, there is an increase in epileptiform activity on the right but without clear clinical correlates.
By the morning of the 26th, although the patient waxes and wanes from wakefulness to sleep, there is more sustained wakefulness with a suggestion of an alpha rhythm on the left.
Heart rate 84 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal electroencephalogram due to:
A pattern of periodic activity with waxing and waning, epileptiform activity, and seizures compatible with a late status epilepticus or ictal pattern.
Highly epileptogenic focus in the right hemisphere with some variability in the central and parietal and posterior temporal occipital regions.
Marked slowing on the right.
An improving pattern on the left but one that remains somewhat slow.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG demonstrates an improvement in a worrisome pattern without ongoing clinical seizures but supports a very highly epileptogenic process.



