CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 34-year-old right-handed female with past medical history of seizure disorders, childhood onset.  Her last seizure was 2 months ago, described as feeling dizzy and strange, lasting for 1-2 minutes.  Past medical history is also significant for neurofibromatosis.
MEDICATIONS:  None.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the laboratory using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement, in addition to T1 and T2 electrodes and 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness through drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm is 11-12 Hz in frequency, 30-40 microvolts in amplitude seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontal central beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifacts.  There was intermittent burst of focal slowing in the left anterior and mid temporal regions at F7/T3 consisting of 2.5 to 3 Hz delta frequency activity, 30-40 microvolts in amplitude, lasting for 1-2 seconds. Hyperventilation results in slowing of the background most prominent on the left side.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response.  Heart rate was 70 to 80 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to intermittent bursts of focal slowing in the left temporal region during wakefulness and short periods of drowsiness.  There were no epileptiform abnormalities or seizures identified in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Left temporal slowing could be suggestive of an underlying structural abnormalities in the left hemisphere or left temporal dysfunction. There were no epileptiform abnormalities or seizures noted during this recording.  If seizures are of clinical concern, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or a 24-hour ambulatory EEG may be helpful.



