History:	42 year old woman with a history of seizures, now presents in status epilepticus.
Medications:	 DEPAKOTE, PHENOBARBITAL, DILANTIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 09/03/2015 till 09/04/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses
and EEG technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team
for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  During wakefulness, the background consists of polymorphic
diffuse theta and delta activity activity.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Sleep spindles and
K-complexes are captured.  Sleep spindles are better formed over the right hemisphere.
Continuous 1 Hz left temporal PLEDs-plus are captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over the
T3 lead and sharp waves have a broad field.  Two typical focal right temporal onset electrographic
seizures are captured, at 8:44 am (duration 35 sec) and at 8:15 pm (duration 57 sec).  There is no
Various EEG leads demonstrate artifact throughout the recording.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
PLEDs-plus, continuous, left temporal, 1 Hz
Seizure, two, left temporal, 35sec-57 sec
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour EEG due to (1) moderate -to-severe diffuse slowing; (2)
continuous 1 Hz left temporal periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs-plus) and (3) 2
left temporal subclinical seizures.  There is a focal left hemispheric structural cerebral abnormality,
especially over the left temporal region, that contains an epileptogenic focus.  Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
clear correlate.





