History:	46 year old woman with a history of reported seizures.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 17 hours from 3/13/2015 till 3/14/2015 (recording
paused from ~ 6 pm till ~ 12:30 am).   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical
behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection
of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in
detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The background consists of low amplitude 10-11 Hz alpha activity posteriorly that attenuates with
eye opening.  Fast alpha variant is seen most commonly posteriorly.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz
activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is captured.
Sleep is fragmented.  Normal sleep architecture consisting of POSTS, vertex waves, symmetrical
sleep spindles and REM sleep is observed.
Nearly continuous polymorphic theta activity is present in the right posterior quadrant.  Additional,
low amplitude fast activity is observed in the right posterior quadrant.  Several events are captured.
None have an associated abnormal ictal correlate.  They have the same etiology as the events
captured on 3/13/2015 recording.
After ~ 10 PM, there is continuous O1 lead artifact.
Summary of Findings:
Event, few, no abnormal ictal correlate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, mild, right posterior
Breach artifact, right posterior
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video ~17-hour EEG due to mild focal right posterior quadrant
slowing. This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  Breach artifact is
secondary to the skull defect.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect,
such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  Several events of right arm shaking, stiffening and
unresponsiveness have no abnormal ictal EEG correlate.





