CLINICAL HISTORY: 50 year old woman with diabetes, schizophrenia, hepatitis C, admitted with seizures on May 8, 2010.
MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Prednisone, Flagyl, Zosyn, Vancomycin, Amikacin, Avelox, Valcyte
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is intubated and intermittently agitated.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates a dynamic and markedly abnormal pattern. Some sections of the record demonstrate a discontinuous pattern with attenuation. Other sections demonstrate delta and theta. There is some more prominent theta in the right posterior quadrant and some shifting slowing. Beta activity is more prominent in the frontocentral regions.
Intermittent episodes with tremulousness are observed. Nothing can be seen looking at the video and there is no remark from the technologist that the patient is doing anything, but there seems to be a burst of beta or muscle artifact. On some occasions, there is some occipital delta seen about a minute afterwards with occipital delta on one occasion seen with a muscle artifact There is minimal head moving with those discharges. As the record continues, there seems to be a transient picked up in the posterior quadrant and even using an average reference, it is poorly localized, but it is more of a PZ CZ focus.
At least in the beginning of the record, the technologist notes that the patient has tremors of the mouth and face and despite the artifact seen there that a rhythmic and somewhat periodic focus at PZ can be identified. As the recording continues, the activity seems to localize the right parietal region, but it has a transverse dipole picked up right parietal and left frontal.
HR: 90 bpm   IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Unusual epileptiform activity picked up at the right parietal and midline in the parietal region.
2. Marked background slowing.
3. intermittent attenuation of the background.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Correlation with imaging is advised. In addition, if this individual is thought to have ongoing epileptiform activity, EEG monitoring Is appropriate.


