CLINICAL HISTORY:  24 year old right handed female with frequent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, Dilantin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Multiple seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike detection software and seizure detection software were used to detect seizures.  In addition, patient events and alarms also helped in reviewing the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Throughout the night, there was some electrode misplacement artifact.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta, although there is some beta seen diffusely.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Frequent sharp waves seen at C3/P3 with a large field.
Generalized slow waves at 2 to 4 Hz with an amplitude of 20 to 50 microvolts.
SEIZURES:  Multiple tonic seizures were seen where the patient suddenly lifts up her right arm followed by her left arm in a tonic fashion, lasting for 20 to 30 seconds, then stops and screams.  During this episode the EEG appears to reveal a diffuse change in attenuation that, is not clearly localizable and seen diffusely, but in about 5 to 10 seconds appears to develop into a nicely well formed low amplitude beta that is seen best at C3/P3 but rapidly is seen toward C4/P4 and diffuse frontal regions.  Afterward there is a diffuse end to the seizure.
There appears to be diffuse delta.  The seizures to have improved in number and occur in clusters around midnight and 6:00 in the morning.  Total in average there occurred about 2 seizures per hour.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Frequent seizures of unclear origin, possibly left hemispheric in origin.
Generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with likely localization-related epilepsy with multiple seizures, possibly arising from the left central parietal region.  In addition, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.



