The patient was recorded while unresponsive.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, metoprolol, Protonix, Lovenox, prednisone, Lopressor, midazolam. The patient was also given Versed for a short period of time.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a background that is completely attenuated and suppressed with intermixed seizures and sharp waves which I will describe in abnormal discharges.  There is no normal sleep architecture.  There is no normal frontocentral beta.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen intermittently at T5, at times they appear to be polyspike discharges at the same electrode.  There are also sharp waves seen at T3 and F7 as well as O1 and T6 although these appear independently.
The background appears to be completely suppressed and attenuated in between the sharp waves and the seizures.
SEIZURES:
There are multiple electrographic seizures occurring almost continuously throughout the recording with no clinical correlate.  Some appear to occur at T5, O1, at times at T3, sometimes at T4 and T6 with polyspikes that appear to evolve and spread sometimes from the right hemisphere to the left hemisphere, sometimes remain on the left occipital or right mid temporal region.  These seizures may last for 2-3 minutes and start and stop and at times there are short rhythmic runs bursts of sharp waves seen.  As described before in between the seizures there is complete attenuation of the EEG and at times intermixed with delta discharges that are sharply contoured in bursts.  Some seizures appear to terminate in the left frontal region at F7 but again sometimes they switch from the right hemisphere to the left hemisphere as they evolve.  By about 8 o'clock, the background appears to attenuate and the seizure appeared to improve in amplitude and some T4 seizures are seen without lower amplitude and less polymorphic activity.  They continue to occur and appear to remain as T4 PLEDS for some time until about 8:15 p.m. after which no more electrical activity can be seen except some artifact.  At around 8:30 p.m. or slightly before, the background appears to become completely suppressed and attenuated with no clear electrocerebral activity seen and this remains for the rest of the recording.  Of note, around this time the patient was given some Versed.  The EEG then remains flat for the entirety of the recording until the next day.  During the morning the next day around 10:30, the patient was placed on an electrocerebral silence protocol and reviewed under 2 microvolts of sensitivity, there is no clear electrocerebral activity seen.
Heart rate: 72.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to nonconvulsive electrical status epilepticus arising from multiple foci with additional intermixed diffuse attenuation which progresses to complete electrocerebral silence throughout the recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In this EEG the first hours reveal nonconvulsive electrographic status epilepticus arising from multiple foci as described above. In addition, there is evidence of marked diffuse cerebral dysfunction seen between the seizures which appears to progress at the end of the record to overall to electrocerebral silence.  Of note, medication was given during the process of change which may at least in part affect the findings seen on the EEG. The severe suppression was noted and informed to the primary team.



