History:	66 YR MAN WITH CC OF INTERMITTANT EPISODES OF LEFT SIDED
WEAKNESS.  LAST NIGHT EPISODE OF WAKING UP CONFUSED/ CURSING.
PMHX: CVA B/L MCA/ PCA.
Medications:	LORAZEPAM 6/14.
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Two seizures were recorded beginning with rhythmic1-2
Hz activity in the right anterior temporal region and evolving into 4-5 Hz activity in the same
region. There is minimal spread and suddenly stops.  Clinically the patient remains sitting
motionless with eyes closed. He is asked a verbal orientation question at the end of the second
seizure and the patient answers correctly.  The first seizure lasts 42 seconds and the second one 56
seconds.  Occasional focal sharp waves are also present in the right anterior temporal region.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  HR is 84 bps irregular and with PVCs
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, two, right temporal, anterior
Sharp waves, occasional, right temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, right temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of two seizures arising from the right
anterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region,
and are consistent with a history of localization related epilepsy arising from this region. In addition
there is  intermittent focal slowing in the right anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative
of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.





