CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 54-year-old female, status post ruptured aneurysms with coiling on 03/2013.  Started on Keppra for seizure prophylaxis.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Migraine headache.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Topamax, Valium, verapamil.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm is 10 to 10.5 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a large amount of low amplitude diffuse beta activity which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage I sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves and post. Stage II sleep is characterized by the presence of K-complexes and sleep spindles.  Hyperventilation results in symmetric slowing of the background.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response.  There are intermittent bursts of left anterior to mid temporal slowing, 3-4 Hz in frequency lasting for 1-2 seconds during wakefulness and drowsiness.
Heart rate is 80 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing wakefulness through stage II sleep due to the presence of intermittent left temporal slowing.  No epileptiform abnormalities or electrographic seizures were identified in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to an underlying structural abnormality in the subcortical white matter of the left temporal region.  Generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepine, barbiturates, or could be due to anxiety or hyperthyroidism.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or electrographic seizures were seen in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG or a 24 hour ambulatory EEG may be helpful.



