History: 59 year old woman with a reported first convulsion several days ago.
Medications:	Ativan, Ambien, Zoloft
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of 10.5-11 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eye
opening.  There is an expected AP gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.
Diffuse excess beta activity is captured.  Symmetrical sleep architecture consisting of vertex waves,
sleep spindles and K-complexes is captured in the second half of the recording.
Multiple events concerning for focal electrographic seizures are captured in the first half of the
recording.  Clinically, patient has not complaints and able to answer questions correctly, including
able to count during these events.  They last ~ 35-55 seconds.  The onset is not clearly lateralized
for the majority of the events.  They start with P3/P4 broad moderate amplitude sharp waves that
gradually increase in frequency up to 6 Hz and spread to the left posterior temporal region
(example ~12:17 PM).  Some events start with ~ 4 Hz medium amplitude rhythmic right parietal
activity that gradually spreads to the left parietal and left temporal regions (example ~12:35:50 pm).
After hyperventilation, brief bursts (<10 sec) of non-evolving shifting bilateral
posterior 5-6 Hz rhythmic moderate amplitude delta activity are captured.  Once P3 and P4 leads
are exchanged at ~12:46:55 PM, the above activity is no longer present.  A single clear right
posterior temporal sharp wave with aftergoing slow wave is captured early in the recording.
Maximal scalp negativity occurs over the T6 lead.  Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds
with good cooperation, and results in increase of bilateral parietal rhythmic delta activity.  Stepped
photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at multiple
Summary of Findings:
Beta, excessive
Sharp waves, one, right temporal, posterior
Sleep, stage 2
Seizure, frequent, bilateral parietal, 35-55 seconds
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 48 minute awake and asleep EEG due to presence of multiple suspected
bilateral parietal focal brief (35-55 sec) seizures/ ictal runs.  Of note, these runs disappeared once
P3 and P4 electrodes were exchanged but patient also fell asleep.  Additionally, a single clear
right posterior temporal epileptiform discharge is present.  These findings suggest structural focal
cerebral abnormality over the bilateral parietal, right temporal region.  Since It is possible that
activity seen was artifactual (it disappeared after leads were exchanged), a repeat prolonged EEG
may be of benefit.  These findings were discussed with the ordering physician.  Excessive beta
activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.

flash rates.






