CLINICAL HISTORY:  39 year old woman with refractory epilepsy in childhood starting at age 13 with frequent emergencies.  Now primarily with stress-related seizures.  Significant bipolar disease, suicidal ideation, morbid obesity, asthma.
MEDICATIONS:  Wellbutrin, Depakote, Seroquel, Klonopin, Fioricet
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient reports one of her typical spells on the morning of the 20th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:

March 19- 20, 2012:  During this section of the record, the patient reports no seizures.  She is encouraged to be as active as possible, but remains in bed for most of the time.  Wakefulness includes a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  She sleeps sitting up with a drowsy pattern with beta activity.  Although there is EKG artifact, there are some POSTs noted in the background.  On the night of the 19th, the patient is sleeping with CPAP.  She has difficulty keeping the CPAP on and has removed it by 3 a.m. and is eating.  With the CPAP present, however, she does manage to have extended stage 2 sleep.
March 20-21, 2012:  The patient pushes alarm at 8:26 p.m. on the 20th.  This is the first pushbutton identified, although she had reported one during the day on the 20th.  That seizure is not identified by patient pushbutton or by EEG monitor detection.  At 8:16, this appears to be a practice pushbutton or an accidental pushbutton.  The patient is awake and is moving about.  On the 20th seizure, time 10:51, the patient is sitting in bed.  She pushes the button and tells the nurse that she has a seizure, a small one.  She has a 9-second burst of eye blink artifact, but underneath this there does seem to be some generalized slowing.  The alpha rhythm attenuates, as might be expected in an individual who is conversant.  She is not moving that much during the event and even less afterwards and immediately afterwards there is no background slowing.  There is another brief burst of slowing of 4-seconds' duration at 10:51:34 which the patient does not describe as symptomatic and then immediately following this, she is talking to the nurse telling her about the symptoms with the challenges that she has and her GI symptoms and the EEG at that point is obscured by movement.
Of note, she has some additional bursts on that morning with some bursts of frontally predominant delta.  These are not symptomatic and they also occur with her moving about.
Timed samples February 20-21:  Normal awake through stage 2 sleep, no epileptiform features, no paroxysmal bursts of any other nature.
LONG TERM MONITORING - #36 – 03/22/2012
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG includes a well-organized pattern. This EEG demonstrates significant different artifacts including 2 artifacts, face rubbing, nose rubbing artifacts. There are no pushbuttons that correlate with a seizure, but there is an episode at 2:38 a.m. when the patient is taking off her CPAP mask which is approximately around the time that she reported the seizure.  It is difficult to see any specific behaviors that look like a seizure, but there is some rhythmic artifact at that point.
HR:    90 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Two behavioral events, neither with EEG correlates.
The absence of interictal epileptiform activity.
Disturbance of sleep-wake cycle.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG, not surprisingly, demonstrates a disrupted sleep-wake cycle in this morbidly obese patient who spent the hospitalization in bed.  She did appear to sleep better with CPAP.  The behaviors in question had unusual
semiology for an epileptiform seizure and did not have EEG correlate suggesting that they may not be epileptiform in nature.



