History:	42 YR FEMALE WITH NEW ONSET SZ. LEFT SIDE TWITCHING FACIAL.
SOMETIMES UE. PT STARES DURING SEIZURE. POST PT RESPONDS TO
QUESTION.  PMHX:  DEPRESSION, ANXIETY,  CHIARI MALFORMATION
DECOMPRESSION. 2003 SURGERY. MI.
Medications:	DEPAKOTE,  VENLAFAXINE, LORATADINE, ASA, LOVENOX
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 01/07/2014 to 01/08/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	10
Description of pushbutton events
See below.
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm reaches at best 8 Hz.  Background activity was characterized by
diffuse low voltage mainly theta activity. However at times the background improves with faster
frequencies and a more organized anterior to posterior gradient.  During drowsiness, the alpha
rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Almost continuous F8/T4 focal slowing is present.  Frequent sharp waves are present in the F8/T4
region.  During this record there are 10 seizures. Clinically the patient has facial twitching and
cannot speak but responds appropriately to verbal motor commands.  The EEG reveals some
rhythmic right frontal theta that appears to evolve in frequency and then is obscured by a myogenic
artifact.  After some seconds a rhythmic delta can be seen over the central electrodes mainly on
the right which suddenly subsides. The seizures last about 1 minute.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Seizure
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  ten partial seizures with right hemispheric likely frontal
onset.  In addition the frequent right anterior temporal sharp waves are indicative of a highly
sleep spindles and K complexes appear. potentially epileptogenic acute focal destructive lesion in the right anterior temporal region. Lastly
there is  diffuse background slowing.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of
moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


