CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 65-year-old man with a past medical history of a left MCA stroke, seizures and hepatitis who now presents with a change in mental status, subsequently found to have several seizures on the EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include:  Keppra, Zonisamide, Ativan as needed.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The recording was performed continuously.  The patient was equipped with an event button.  Medical staff notes and nursing notes were reviewed.  Spike detector and seizure detector software was activated.  The study was reviewed on several occasions throughout the recording epoch by an attending neurologist.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Early in the recording the background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  As the recording progresses the degree of delta increases and the degree of background discontinuity increases as well.  During sleep diffuse spindle-like complexes are observed.  There are intermittent seizures throughout the recording.  In the beginning of the recording seizures occur several times per hour.  An additional dose of Keppra and Ativan were administered at approximately 3:15 p.m.  After this seizure frequency decreases to an average of approximately 1 seizure per hour.  However, several seizures are captured between 9:27 p.m. and 9:50 p.m.  The seizures last on an average of approximately 60 to 80 seconds up to approximately 130 seconds.  Throughout  the majority of the recording the seizures appeared to be left occipital in onset.  However, several seizures are left frontocentral in onset and by the end of the recording the seizures appeared to be left frontal in onset.  All of the seizures evolve electrographically in a similar pattern.  The seizures start with rhythmic alpha activity that evolves in amplitude and frequency, increasing in amplitude and decreasing in frequency, and spreading throughout the left hemisphere.  As the seizure evolves the frequency of rhythmic activity decreases and gradually stops.  No clinical testing is performed during these seizures.
FINDINGS:
Moderate diffuse slowing that increases in severity as the recording progresses.
Focal left  hemispheric slowing.
Intermittent focal seizures, left hemispheric in onset, primarily left occipital in onset or left frontocentral in onset.  Seizure frequency is from approximately 1 per hour up to several per hour (focal status epilepticus).  Seizure duration is approximately 1 to 2 minutes.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 18 hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to moderate diffuse slowing that increases in severity as the recording progresses, focal left hemispheric slowing, and intermittent left occipital/frontocentral focal onset seizures that intermittently increase in frequency into frank focal status epilepticus.  Diffuse focal slowing indicates etiologically specific diffuse cerebral dysfunction that is likely partially medication related.  Focal left hemispheric slowing and focal onset seizures indicate focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and this is consistent with the patient's history of a left middle cerebral artery territory stroke.  Seizure frequency decreases several hours into the recording and is related to demonstration of additional antiepileptic medications.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology Team.



