CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 58-year-old female who presents with a seizure disorder since the age of 12.  The patient has a strong family history of seizure disorder.  She reports six to seven episodes per day with mind wandering. Diabetes, hypertension, asthma, and spinal stenosis.
MEDICATIONS: Lamictal and Neurontin.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the Long-Term Monitoring Unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient did not push the button, but felt that she had “one spell”.  The nurses did not recognize any seizures, nor did the EEG system.  The patient felt that she slept “better than usual”.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In maximal wakefulness, the background EEG is low voltage but symmetric.  There is a 9 Hz, 20 V posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of frontocentral beta activity.  LAMBDA activity was identified as the patient watched TV.  In drowsiness, attenuation of the alpha rhythm and increased theta activity were identified.  In light sleep, small sharp transience of sleep were seen in the right temporal region occasionally in the left, as well as occasional wicket activity mostly seen in the right hemisphere and occasionally in the left.  Sleep was characterized by vertex waves and spindles, however, the patient did not sleep well during the night, frequently waking up and moving about the room.
The patient reported a single seizures at 6 PM, but did not push the button and no seizure activity was found on the video EEG correlates.  No epileptiform discharges were seen.
HR:  80 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Normal 24 hour long-term EEG monitoring for a subject of this age.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: No push button events were seen in this tracing.  No seizure activity was identified and no epileptiform discharges were seen.  The small sharp transient during sleep and wicket activity is a normal variant. The fact that the patient did not sleep well may be due to an underlying sleep disturbance or background noise in the hospital Normal EEG does not exclude the possibility of a seizure disorder or epilepsy.  The patient insisted upon early termination of her EEG monitoring.  If she consents to additional long-term monitoring with withdrawal of medications, may be helpful to identify EEG abnormalities or seizures.




