LENGTH OF RECORDING:  21 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 40-year-old woman with a history of cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and seizures since childhood who now presents with a break-through seizure in the setting of an infection.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Keppra, Lovenox, and Zosyn.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed at the bedside.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  Intermittent low to moderate amplitude sharp waves with after-going slow waves were captured over the left occipital region with maximal scalp negativity over O1 electrode.  Additionally, several generalized spikes with after-going slow waves, most pronounced over the right frontal region are captured.  Several seizures are captured.  Electrographically these seizures are characterized by sudden diffuse voltage attenuation and appearance of generalized beta/fast activity.  On a single occasion such activity is preceded by generalized high amplitude spike and wave activity.  As this voltage attenuation and fast activity progresses rhythmic teeth grinding artifact is observed.  Clinically the patient starts moving and has occasional gaze deviation towards the left.  There are several such electrographic seizures during the recording.  These seizures have poor offset.  They lasted for approximately 2 minutes.
FINDINGS:
Several seizures, likely neocortical in origin with poor offset, lasting approximately 2 minutes and clinically associated with rhythmic teeth grinding artifact and possibly gaze deviation towards the left.
Left occipital sharp waves.
Rare generalized spikes with after-going slow waves, most pronounced over right frontal region.
Moderate diffuse slowing.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 21-minute EEG due to several seizures likely neocortical in origin, intermittent left occipital epileptiform discharges, several generalized spike and waves, and moderate diffuse slowing and disorganization.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Epileptiform discharges indicate likely multi-focal onset epilepsy.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology consult team.



