REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 42-year-old woman with a history of seizures, hepatitis C, drug abuse on methadone, who presents with complaints of heart racing, dizzy, feeling shaky with no loss of consciousness.  She has had seizures for 9 years, last one was 1 week ago.
MEDICATIONS:  Trileptal, aspirin, Lovenox, gabapentin, zonisamide.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with a lead anterior temporal and a single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some movement artifact intermittently.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 8 Hz which appears to be reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation produced no abnormal discharges.  Throughout the recording, the patient has intermittent bouts of nystagmoid eye movements while her eyes are closed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal sharp wave seen at 01 intermittently, in addition to focal slowing seen at also 01-02 in the parietal region at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 mV.
SEIZURES:  The patient had a seizure at 1:19:46 p.m. which clinically the patient appears to move her head to the left and then to the right.  Then suddenly her eyes deviate towards the right and her head starts turning towards the right while her hands are clenched in front of her.  She remains in a stiff posturing with her eyes deviated to the right and her head deviated to the right throughout the entire seizure.  She intermittently swallows while this is occurring and smacks her lips.  It appears that at 1:21:20, the seizure ends electrographically, however, clinically she continues to stare and appears to continue to lip smack and mumbles.  The patient remains confused until almost the end of the recording.
EEG:  It appears the electrographic onset to be a sudden change in attenuation over the right hemisphere, losing the posterior dominant frequency.  This continues to evolve with frontal theta discharge that appears as the patient starts moving her head to the right, then spreads to the occipital region on the left hemisphere.  It continues to quickly increase and evolve amplitude and decrease in frequency until it is obscured by muscle artifact.  There is a buildup and spread of this rhythmicity and which suddenly it stops and is followed by diffuse slowing with intermixed muscle artifact on the EEG.
Heart rate 84.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to a single seizure, of unclear origin, in addition to some left occipital sharp waves and slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with a single seizure of unclear origin. In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral structural dysfunction and irritability in the left occipital area.



