History:	85 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O S/P CODE APPROX 45 MIN. NOW ON
HYPERTHERMIA PROTOCOL
Medications:	Propofol, fentanyl, versed
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 3/11/2015 till 3/12/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of generalized periodic broad sharp
waves (GPEDs).  Their frequency increases in the course of the recording from 1-1.5 Hz to 2.5 Hz.
By the end of the recording, the background is more attenuated and GPEDs have been replaced by
attenuated 1-1.5 Hz bifrontal periodic sharp waves (biPEDs).  No normal sleep architecture is
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Periodic discharges generalized, 2-2.5 Hz maximally
Attenuation, progressive and generalized
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 24 hour continuous video EEG monitoring due generalized periodic
epileptiform discharges (GPEDs) that become more blunted/ attenuated and more frontally
predominant by the end of the recording. These findings indicate marked diffuse background
dysfunction and diffuse cortical irritability and in a post-anoxic injury patient indicate poor chance
of meaningful neurological recovery.  Attenuation of the voltages and cerebral activity that are
seen by  the end of the recording could indicate progressive worsening of diffuse cerebral
dysfunction vs the effect of escalating medical therapy.  These findings were conveyed to the


