CLINICAL HISTORY:  Refractory status epilepticus
MEDICATIONS:  topiramate, phenobarbital, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  This patient was briefly off the monitor for MRI and then placed back on.
The patient's Versed doses had been reduced during the monitoring.  The patient had remained poorly responsive, but during the EEG had a single episode of right shoulder twitching at approximately 1:08 p.m. on the 1st.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  The initial sections of this last day of recording include a left occipital sharp waves or spike, which is somewhat periodic in nature.  Also, evolving out of this record is lower voltage fast activity from the left central or frontal central region.  This section of the record demonstrates a more clear breach rhythm with higher amplitude slowing on the left compared to the right, but the overall pattern is quite slow.
At 12:48 p.m., there is more muscle artifact noted.  The respiratory therapist is working with the event and looking at the video, there is muscle artifact, but there is a question of both rhythmic theta in the left frontal central region and muscle artifact on the right.  Looking at the video, it is very difficult to see a clinical features of the seizure.  At 12:52, the nurse comes to check on the patient and somewhere along this time the nurse identifies a clinical seizure.  There is clear muscle artifact noted just before 1 a.m., but the likely event may have been at 1:08 or 1:05.  The nurse were called twitching of the upper arm, which is harder to see on the video, but it does look like there may have been a flicker of movement in the face at that time.
No additional clinical twitching was noted and the Versed drip was adjusted subsequently.  Subsequent sections of the record demonstrate a more suppressed overall background with the occipital spikes and sharp waves previously noted.  Some of these briefly have a field at T2.
As the recording continues, the overall EEG is much slower.  There has been a transition with this record with epileptiform activity from the left occipital region, which now seems to have a field on the right, not previously noted.
Heart rate 88.
IMPRESSION:  This is the last day of continuous EEG monitoring for this patient.  It is remarkable for:
A refractory epileptiform pattern with epileptiform activity from the left hemisphere.  There appears to be more than 1 area substantially epileptiform activity in the left hemisphere, left frontocentral, and left occipital temporal.
A clinical seizures are more localizing to the left motor, supplementary motor with twitching of the face, arm, and pectoralis.
In this very ill patient, correlation with the posterior epileptiform activity is more challenging.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is compatible with that refractory performed with status epilepticus.  Uses of high doses of sedative hypnotic medications and transformation to a burst suppression pattern were helpful, but as can be seen on April 1st, reduction of medications is associated with recurrence of the focal motor seizures.
__________________________



