CLINICAL HISTORY:  Refractory seizures.  Patients presents with daily events, for which she often has no warning and can otherwise describes seizures may have stroke like features.

MEDICATIONS:  Topiramate, Trileptal, Lexapro.

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement of seizure and spike detection software.
05/18/2015- 05/19/2015
The patient experienced 1 event in the first 24 hours of recording.

Background:  In wakefulness, the background EEG includes a 10 Hz alpha rhythm with symmetric reactive alpha.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and Posts.
Epileptiform Detections:  None.
Epileptic seizures:  None.
Events:  The patient had an event at 4:31.  The patient was awake, but the push button was pushed at 4:33.  EEG pattern during this clinical event was characterized by a normal awake EEG with heart rate 80 bpm.

05/19/2015- 05/20/2015
During this section of the record, the patient's Trileptal and topiramate doses were reduced.  The patient had 4 push button events, only one clinically significant  while off camera in the bathroom.

Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, which is symmetric and reactive to eye opening.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.

Epileptiform abnormalities:  None.

Epileptic seizures:  None.

Push buttons:

1. Shaking spell off camera:  EEG demonstrates a normal awake pattern.
2. Questionable event noted by nurse.  It is not clear that it was a seizure.  No EEG change.

05/20/2015- 05/21/2015

Background:  In wakefulness, the background EEG includes a 10 Hz alpha rhythm with symmetric reactive alpha. Wicket activity was seen in drowsiness, left more than right
Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and Posts.
Epileptiform Detections:  A single left temporal sharp wave was seen in drowsiness
Epileptic seizures:  None.

Impression: 72 hour EEG remarkable for:
1. Two events without EEG change, with behaviors typical of non-epileptic seizures
2. No additional events could be elicited with medication reduction
3. A single Left temporal sharp wave

CLINICAL CORRELATION:
As discussed with the patient, the current events appear to be stress related non epileptic seizures.
The possibility of an underlying epilepsy is not excluded, but if present appears to be controlled by current therapies.

