CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 50-year-old male with epilepsy since age 12.  Subsequent cocaine dependence.  After a seizure, patient became violent.  Seizures characterized by an aura of strange feeling followed by postictal confusion.  Last seizure 1 day ago. The patient asked the technologist if photic stimulation would produce 1 of his typical seizures.  The technologist told him that, that was a possibility.  The patient subsequently had 1 of typical behaviors during photic stimulation, but after the photic stimulation had stopped.
MEDICATIONS:  Tegretol, Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with a 10 Hz alpha rhythm and a scant amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Hyperventilation was performed early in the EEG and produces and increase an amplitude of the background.  Vertex waves and POSTS are observed in stage 1 sleep with brief stage 2 sleep.  The patient was falling asleep during photic stimulation and transitioning in and out of sleep during photic stimulation.
The patient had an event during photic stimulation.  The patient was drowsy prior to photic stimulations, the patient was waking up, although there were brief transitions in and out of sleep.
The patient was awake at the end of the 11 Hz stimuli, when the behavior occurred, he sat up abruptly.  His eyes were dilated, he was moving back and forth and his heart rate increased briefly to 150 BPM.
Although the audio was not working, the patient was able to communicate during the event.
There were no epileptiform features noted during the event.  No postictal features were identified.
Heart rate 78-150 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  The EEG is normal.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This patient had an unusual behavior.  The patient was clearly awake for several seconds prior to the event, but he had been drifting in and out of sleep.  The event had no epileptiform features, but a link either to a sleep-related disorder or a psychiatric illness may be considered.



