History:	51 year old female who presents after a fall.  She is found to have 1 cm basilar
artery aneurysm.  She is undergoing IR-guided coiling of the aneurysm.

7 coils inserted.
Medications:	Induction Meds: Propofol, Rocuronium, Lidocaine, Midazolam, Fentanyl.  Other
medications used during the procedure: propofol and 1% sevoflurane
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Description:
Patient is awake at the procedure onset.  The background consists of 12 Hz PDR with normal AP
gradient.  Once patient is intubated, the background consists of a mixture of alpha and theta
activity with absent AP gradient.  Approximately 1 hr 30 minutes into the recording voltages
become diffusely lower and intermittent brief background attenuation is noted.  There is no change
in anesthetic agent doses and no coils are deployed around the time this change is noted.  By
the end of the recording, patient's EEG returns to the baseline seen after intubation.
Approximately 2 hours into the procure, diffuse severe burst suppression appears suddenly.  It is
related to rapid increase in doses of propofol infusion.  First coil is deployed ~ 1 hour 48 minutes
into the recording.  There are no changes in the background noted.  Second coil is deployed ~2
hours into the recording.  There is no immediate change is noted.  However, within ~2 minutes of
the coil deployment, the background becomes diffusely suppressed (due to increase in propofol
dose).  Between 2 hours and 2 hrs 13 minutes into the recording 4 more coils are deployed, but
background is burst-suppressed at that time and no meaningful comments about background
change associated with coil deployment could be made.  Seventh coil is deployed ~2 hours 17
minutes into the recording with no appreciable change in the background.
Summary of Findings:
Other, no change in the background with coil deployment
Interpretation:
This is an unremarkable ~ 2 hours 20 minutes continuous EEG monitoring performed during IR-
guided aneurysmal coiling.  Seven coils were deployed with no change in the background seen by
the end of the case. Period of decrease in voltages and increase in the background discontinuity was
likely related by patient falling into deeper stages of sleep rather than secondary to procedure-
related cerebral damage.  During the entire length of the procedure, an attending physician was


