CLINICAL HISTORY:  This patient is a 67-year-old woman with a past history of breast cancer and previous right frontal stroke, admitted to the hospital in early February with a stroke primarily characterized by aphagia.  The patient had good recovery with little motor deficit but impaired language.  Repeat EEG recording was requested after an EEG on the 20th showed increasing left temple rhythmic focal slowing with sharply contoured slowing and sharp waves.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  During this 24 hour section, the patient was wake.  She seems to comprehend reasonably well, but cannot speak.  She had difficulty keeping the EEG electrodes in place.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, the background EEG demonstrates a relatively well organized pattern from the right.  The left hemisphere demonstrates intermittent rhythmic slowing from the left mid temporal region which is sharply contoured but there are sections, particularly when the patient alerts when this rhythmic slowing and sharply contoured slowing attenuates.
The patient had extensive language testing during the recording.  No clear clinical change with her essentially global aphasia and language apraxia was noted.
The overnight sleep record demonstrates spindle activity.  The focal slowing is not quite as prominent in sleep and there certainly is no increase in epileptiform activity in sleep.
On the morning of the 22nd, the patient increasingly awake.  The activity on the right is a little bit slow and disorganized and on the left, the intermittent rhythmic slowing of the left temporal region was noted but no sharp waves or sustained ictal discharges.
Heart rate:  60 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  A 24-hour video EEG monitoring was abnormal due to:
Focal slowing from the left temporal region more prominent in wakefulness with some sharp wave contoured rhythmic slowing.
Mild background slowing on the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Overall, this study is improved compared to the most recent baseline EEG on the 20th.  The activity is not as sharply contoured or as epileptiform looking in nature and it is not as sustained.  In addition, it does not seem to be present in sleep suggesting that the current pattern may be more of a typical awake pattern.  Ongoing observation in terms of the potential for subclinical seizures is suggested.



