History:	85 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O S/P CODE APPROX 45 MIN. NOW ON
HYPERTHERMIA PROTOCOL
Medications:	Propofol, fentanyl
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~20 hours from 03/10/2015 till 03/11/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.    Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Early in the recording, the background consists of burst-
suppression pattern with bursts lasting from ~ 2-3 seconds to up to 20-30 seconds.  Bursts at first
consist of frontally predominant slightly evolving very sharply contoured theta activity.  As the
recording progresses, the background is replaced by 1-1.5 Hz frontally predominant waveforms with
triphasic morphology.  Additionally, as the recording progresses, there is gradual decrease in the
background voltages.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Burst-suppression pattern
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges) diffuse, 1-1.5 Hz, seen by the end of the recording
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 20 hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to burst -suppression pattern
that is replaced by 1-1.5 Hz rhythmic generalized epileptiform discharges. These findings indicate
severe diffuse background dysfunction, diffuse cortical irritability and in a post-anoxic injury patient
indicate poor chance of meaningful neurological recovery.  These findings were conveyed to the
neurology consult team.




