History:	42 YR FEMALE WITH NEW ONSET SZ. LEFT SIDE TWITCHING FACIAL.
SOMETIMES UE. PT STARES DURING SEIZURE. POST PT RESPONDS TO
QUESTION.  PMHX:  DEPRESSION, ANXIETY,  CHIARI MALFORMATION
DECOMPRESSION. 2003 SURGERY. MI.
Medications:	DEPAKOTE,  VENLAFAXINE, LORATADINE, ASA, LOVENOX
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 14hrs hours from 01/06/2014 to 01/07/2014.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of
the EEG was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	3
Description of pushbutton events
See description of seizures below.
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm reaches at best 8 Hz.  Background activity was characterized by
diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity at time with more organized anterior to posterior
gradient.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely,
followed by symmetric vertex waves.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate
voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Almost continuous F8/T4 focal slowing is present.  Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges
(PLEDs) are present in the F8/T4 region at a rate of 1 Hz. These progressively become less
continuous but are present frequently as sharp waves.  During this record there are three seizures.
Clinically the patient has facial twitching and cannot speak but responds appropriately to verbal
motor commands. Later the patient complained that she felt as if she could not breath and was
chocking.  The EEG has no clear changes at onset other than the myogenic artifact. After some
seconds a rhythmic delta can be seen over the central electrodes mainly on the right which suddenly
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), right temporal, anterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Seizure
Interpretation: subsides. The seizures last about 1 minute.
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  three partial seizures with unclear onset, but based on
video possibly deep frontal or insular.  In addition the  continuous periodic lateralized epileptiform
discharges (PLEDs) are indicative of a highly potentially epileptogenic acute focal destructive
lesion in the right anterior temporal region. Lastly there is  diffuse background slowing.  These
findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


