History:	49 YR MALE WITH PMHX OF CHRONIC STATIC ENCEPH AND SZS.  FOLLOW UP
EEG.  PER MOM LAST  SZ 1 WK AGO.  INCREASE IN SZS WITH SWITCH OF
MEDS FROM BRAND TO GENERIC KEPPRA
Medications:	KEPPRA, PHENOBARBITAL, CITRACAL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves
appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
Intermittent delta activity is present in the left temporal region during wakefulness, increasing
during drowsiness.  Occasional focal sharp waves are present in the right temporal region, with
phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F8.  There are occasional bursts of bifrontal spike and
slow wave discharges greater on the right side with a frequency of 3-4 Hz lasting 1-2 seconds with
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does
not produce any effect.  HR is 55-60 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, left temporal
Sharp waves, occasional, right temporal
Spike-and-wave complexes, intermittent, bilateral (R>L) frontal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of intermittent focal slowing in the left
temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-
specific.  bifrontal spike-and-wave discharges, which are potentially epileptogenic.  occasional
sharp wave discharges in the right temporal region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially
epileptogenic focus in this region  These findings are most supportive of a diagnosis of localization-
related epilepsy.  Clinical correlation is recommended.




