History:	83 yr found to have right hemiparesis and aphasia. found to have left mca/cva..   Pt
more drowsy today.
Medications:	Valproate, Metoprolol, Tamsulosin, Latanoprost, Cyancobalamin, Simvastatin,
Plavix, Protonix
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, drowsy
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Throughout the record there are intermittent and frequent global changes in the
background cerebral activity. These consist of a sudden appearance of faster frequency waveforms
(alpha) bilaterally and muscle artifact in the frontal regions.  Clinically, the patient either does not
move, or exhibits a cough or swallowing motion during these episodes.  These last approximately
10-20 seconds and resolve spontaneously. During these episodes, there is focal theta and delta that
persists over the left hemisphere.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
The intermittent episodes of fast activity are not clearly ictal discharges and may reflect
waxing/waning level of consciousness or an arousal response.  Alternatively, the episodes may
represent baseline activity interrupted by diffuse slowing as a consequence of increase intracranial
pressure.  A repeat tracing or more prolonged monitoring may be indicated.

