History:	21 Y O F W HX SZ AT AGE 15 LAST SZ 1-2 WEEKS AGO USUALLY WHEN SHE IS
STRESSED UNABLE TO RESPOND AND SEE COLORS.,AND SOMETIMES SHE
HAS GTC WITH TONGUE BITE URINE INCONTINENCE, TWITCHING
Medications:	Trileptal, Trazodone
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  At times the excess theta appears in are bursts of
rhythmic activity with intermixed delta slowing maximal in the bilateral midtemporal and posterior
temporal regions. The patient was not tested during this bursts and they do not clearly evolve.
During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
The bursts again have some focal slowing maximal in the posterior temporal and midtemporal
regions.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.
Summary of Findings:
Other, Diffuse rhythmic theta bursts.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of excess theta in wakefulness. The bursts
described above are mainly seen in drowsiness which suggest this is a sleep pattern. However the
rhythmic pattern and at times focality raise suspicion for a pathologic pattern. Repeated EEG with
testing  during the bursts and/or capturing prolonged sleep may  aid in clarifying the etiology of the
report

