CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 22-year-old male with single seizure in January, perhaps reactive.  Patient subsequently received tramadol for a fracture and had a tonic-clonic seizure.  The patient was started on carbamazepine and since then, complains of feeling spacey.
INTRODUCTION:  One-hour digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient has received levetiracetam 1000 mg during the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins, the background EEG is diffusely slow with an 8.7 Hz alpha rhythm, but with excess beta and bursts of theta.  Bursts of frontally predominant spike and wave activity are noted.  In addition, isolated right or left frontal spike and wave discharges are noted.  Some of these demonstrate a prominence in the right hemisphere.  Hyperventilation was performed early in the record and clearly accentuates frontally predominant spike and wave activity.  The spike and wave activity ranges from 3 to 5 hertz in frequency.   Discharges are not sustained with most spike and wave complexes either isolated or occurring in bursts, less than 1.5 seconds duration.
Photic stimulation was performed while the patient was drifting off to sleep.  This spike and wave discharges did not seem to be augmented by the photic stimulation, but as the patient transitions to sleep, there was a higher amplitude, frontally predominant slowing with a bit more slow spike and wave activity.  Levetiracetam was given at approximately 12 p.m. and the EEG was recorded until 12:41.  Following the levetiracetam, by 12:30, there did appear to be a decrease in the spike and wave activity.  The paroxysmal slowing was a little less remarkable and while the EEG remained abnormal with excess theta, the overall pattern was improving.  The alpha rhythm was at 8.3 hertz at conclusion.
Heart rate, slightly irregular at 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Initially markedly abnormal background with excess slowing and disorganized pattern, improving towards the close of the record.
Frontally predominant spike and slow wave activity.
Focal spike and slow wave activity with a predominance further on the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG may represent a focal or a secondary generalized mechanism for epilepsy.  There was a small degree of irregularity in the heart rate noted in the final pages of the EEG, which may be evaluated by different mechanisms.





