History:	64 year old man who presents with several days of confusion.
Medications:	Ativan, Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, lethargic
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of low amplitude diffuse beta
activity with underriding slow delta activity.  Delta activity is more pronounced over the right
hemisphere, and there is paucity of faster frequencies over the right hemisphere, especially over
the middle and posterior quadrants.  Bilateral sleep spindles are captured.  They are well less
Two focal right anterior temporal seizures are captured.  They last ~ 38 seconds and 60 seconds.
There is no obvious clinical correlate.  Seizures start with low amplitude rhythmic 8 Hz activity that
is best visualized over the T2/T4 electrode (on a bipolar montage).  This activity increases in
amplitude, decreases to frequency to ~ 4 Hz and spreads throughout the right temporal- frontal
region.  In seizure #2, rhythmic 4 Hz activity further evolves into 2 Hz rhythmic moderate-to-high
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, two, right temporal, anterior, lasting 38 sec and 60 sec
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric
Asymmetry, sleep architecture, better formed over the left
Beta, excessive
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 28 minute portable awake and asleep EEG due to moderate diffuse
slowing, continuous focal right hemispheric slowing and 2 focal right anterior temporal seizures that
do not have a clear clinical correlate. Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing, focal seizures and poorly
visualized sleep architecture over the right indicate focal structural lesion over the right
hemisphere, specifically over the temporal region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary
team at the time of the recording and patient was placed on the continuous EEG monitoring.




