CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 38-year-old male presented to Episcopal Hospital on the 15th, status post overdose with what is thought to be hydroxyzine.  Multiple gunshot wounds to the head and spine some time ago, patient is tetraplegic, can only use the left arm, but does take his medicines on his own.  Has epilepsy, manage outside of our institution, marked cranial abnormalities.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Keppra, phenobarbital, baclofen, many others.
INTRODUCTION:  20 minute digital video EEG was performed at bedside in ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This was a technically satisfactory record in a patient with multiple cranial defects and mild hypothermia at 37 degrees on a warming blanket.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal and lacks any of the normal developmental milestones of an adult EEG.  It is diffusely slow with lower voltage delta and theta and intermittent attenuations.
Multifocal spikes are noted in the EEG.  These are generally isolated, independent sharp waves, medium-to-high amplitude, and can be seen at CZ, T3, T5, T4, F8.  The epileptiform activity appears independently in each hemisphere.  In addition, the field of the epileptiform activity is quite variable.
Tactile stimulation in the form of ocular stimulation did not seem to be change the record, but auditory stimulation may have increased some theta in the background.
Heart rate 84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to,
Replacement of normal background with at times a discontinuous pattern, otherwise, a markedly slow pattern.
Epileptiform activity maximum in either hemisphere with multiple different localizations including the central regions with breach activity in the central region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No sustained seizures were noted in this record.  The features described above may be part of this patient's background given his history of epilepsy.  His acute medical illness may contribute to the background slowing.  If additional questions remain, a followup study may be of value.



