CLINICAL HISTORY:  21 year old male with TBI recently, possible seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin, Protonix, Cefepime, Bacitracin, Lovenox.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Possible seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  Continuous spike wave detection software was used to relay the events, as well as the patient's notes, and nurses notes.  The patient was obtunded.  No normal sleep architecture was captured.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffuse slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm and a normal amount of frontal central beta or sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.  Overall the background is consistent with diffuse delta 2-4 Hz slow waves which at times have intermixed decreased amplitude and appear to have faster frequencies seen very infrequently throughout the recording.  At times it is difficult to really see a clear posterior rhythm during those times.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal slow waves seen in the left hemisphere, maximal at times in the frontal regions and sometimes more in the mid temporal regions, shifting from T3, T5, to sometimes F3.  At the same time on the right hemisphere there is also hemispheric slowing which also appears to have some shifting slowing, sometimes more in the mid temporal regions at T4 and sometimes more frontal at F4.  Both of them are at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-80 mV.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Bihemispheric slowing with shifting predominance over the temporal and frontal regions in both hemispheres.
Generalized slowing with intermittent attenuation in amplitude with addition improvement of faster frequencies.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in both hemispheres, maximal in the mid temporal and frontal regions, as well as diffuse cerebral dysfunction, both of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  In addition, faster frequencies are suggestive of improving cortical function.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.



