History:	27 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O MENTAL RETARDATION, CEREBRAL
PALSY, SPASTIC QUADRIPARESIS, SZ DISORDER. FOLLOW UP EEG. NO
RECENT SZ ACTIVITY REPORT
Medications:	KLONOPIN/ PHENOBARBITAL
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity  on the right hemisphere was
composed of diffuse delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior
gradient of frequencies.  The left hemisphere is almost completely attenuated.  No normal sleep
architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the Cz and C4 region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent focal sharp waves are present with phase reversal and
amplitude maximum at Cz/C4, F4 and rare less frequently at O2. The right central discharges at
times become slightly rhythmic but do not clearly evolve.  No clinical or electrographic seizures
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR 70
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent, Right central, frontal and occipital independently.
Attenuation, continuous, left hemispheric
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right central
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of right central, frontal and occipital independent sharp
waves, in addition to continuous right central focal slowing. These findings are suggestive of a
potentially epileptogenic focus in those regions. The continuous focal slowing supports a focal
structural lesion.  There is also almost complete attenuation of left hemisphere which supports
cortical dysfunction in that region.  Lastly there is diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral


