REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 50-year-old man with left temporal glioma with a history of epilepsy, with diabetes, hypertension, and EEG for follow-up.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal and Neurontin
.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures including hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some temporalis muscle artifact seen frequently throughout the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontal central beta.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures were performed.  Photic stimulation produced no abnormal discharges.  Hyperventilation accentuated focal slowing that will be described in the abnormal discharges section.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal slow waves seen independently over F7/T3, T3 more than F8/T4, T4.  This is seen at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  Please note that the focal slowing was accentuated by hyperventilation.  Please also note that there were some very sharply contoured transients specifically during hyperventilation seen over the left hemisphere, suspicious for epileptiform activity.
SEIZURES:  None.
Heart rate 66.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to bilateral independent mid temporal and anterior temporal focal slowing, at times with a sharp contour.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction seen independently over bilateral temporal regions, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  However, in this case, some of the discharges had a suspicious morphology concerning for possible epileptiform discharges/sharp waves.  If clinically desired to confirm the diagnosis, a repeat study with prolonged recording and deeper stages of sleep may be helpful in confirming the diagnosis.



