History:	34 year old female with history of seizures since childhood.  She reportedly had at
least 2 seizures in the last week.
Medications:	Hydrochlorothiazide, Tegretol, zoloft, Ambien
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of well formed and modulated 9 Hz alpha activity that
attenuates with eye opening.  PDR is better formed and modulated over the left.  There is an
anterior-to-posterior frequency-amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes
anteriorly.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely,
followed by symmetric vertex waves.
There is continuous interhemispheric voltage asymmetry with lower voltages over the right.
Additionally, there is paucity of faster frequencies over the right hemisphere, especially over the
anterior and median quadrants.  Semi-rhythmic sharply contoured delta activity at 1-1.25 Hz is
observed over the right frontotemporal region during and following hyperventilation.  Occasional
right frontotemporal sharp waves are noted.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F8, T2, Fp2 and
F4 electrodes.  These discharges become more apparent during photic stimulation.  No clear
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) produces semi-rhythmic sharply
contoured right frontotemporal delta activity and accentuates right frontotemporal sharp waves.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric, mild-to-moderate, especially over
Attenuation, continuous, mild, right hemispheric
Sharp waves, occasional, right frontotemporal, accentuated by photic stimulation
Other, right frontotemporal, focal semi-rhythmic delta is seen with photic stimulation
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 24-minute EEG due to mild-to-moderate right
hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the anterior and middle quadrants and occasional
right frontotemporal epileptiform discharges. Focal slowing and voltage attenuation over the right
is suggestive of focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.  A potential epileptogenic
focus emanates from the right frontotemporal region.  Given accentuation of epileptiform
discharges and focal slowing with photic stimulation, this EEG is suggestive of photosensitive
seizures.  Please correlate clinically electrographic seizures are captured.


