History:	40 year old man with a history of seizures.  Patient reports no seizures for ~ 5 year
and he hopes to regain his driver's license.
Medications:	Tegretol, Zyprexa, Klonopin, Doxepin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Fast alpha variant is captured.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz
activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  There is excess diffuse polymorphic theta
activity.  Diffuse excess beta activity is noted.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm
attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.
Occasional polymorphic theta and delta activity is noted over the left anterior temporal region.  No
epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does
not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
No epileptiform discharges
No stage 2 sleep
Disorganization, mild
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Beta, excessive
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, mild, left temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 29 minute EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, mild
disorganization and occasional mild left anterior temporal focal slowing. Diffuse slowing and
disorganization are indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  Occasional focal slowing is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  No epileptiform discharges are present,
but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep recording may
provide additional information.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.





