History:	41 year old man who presents after 2 generalized convulsions, now with persistently
poor mental status.
Medications:	Dilantin, keppra,
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, drowsy, asleep, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 03/14/2015 till 3/15/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
During arousals the background consists of primarily low amplitude polymorphic theta activity.
Periods of sleep are characterized by low amplitude delta activity, admixed with underriding fast
activity and sleep spindles.
Frequent multifocal independent focal and generalized sharp waves and spikes are captured.
Sharp waves are captured over the left frontocentral region, left temporal, right frontocentral,
predominantly left occipital,  bifrontal region.  Many epileptiform discharges are also generalized.
Some appear as low amplitude polyspikes.  No electrographic seizures are observed.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent multifocal
No electrographic seizures
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24 hour video EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing and
multifocal epileptiform discharges. Diffuse background slowing indicates diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, that is etiologically non-specific.  Its severity decreases as the recording progresses.
Epileptogenic potential is present in multiple cerebral regions.  No electrographic seizures are
present.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as
benzodiazepines or barbiturates.



