CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 41-year-old woman with history of bipolar disease and bariatric surgery, status post brief seizure. Presented to the emergency room after eyes rolling up, fell to the floor rhythmically convulsing for 1 minute with lip laceration.  Past history of bipolar disease, bariatric surgery, mental illness, UTI, AED overdose and prior suicide attempt. TBI.
MEDICATIONS:  Seroquel, Benadryl, Macrobid, and Tegretol.  The patient disclosed to EEG tech that she had stopped seizure medication.
INTRODUCTION:  A 20-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.  This was a technically acceptable record although impedances in the T1 and T2 electrodes were greater than 5 kilo ohms.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm, which is symmetric and reactive to eye opening.  Central mu-activity was noted but testing was not performed to confirm this.  The overall background is poorly organized with excess theta, and at times, some shifting asymmetry is noted in the alpha rhythm.  Drowsiness was characterized by an increase in beta.
Hyperventilation did not significantly activate the record.  Photic stimulation elicited a driving response.  In addition, just prior to the 5 Hz photic stimulation and during the 9 Hz photic stimulation, there is a poorly defined underlying spike and wave complex identified in the occipital regions.
Heart rate 54-66 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Background slowing and disorganization.
A subtle, somewhat poorly organized 3-6 Hz underlying occipitally predominant spike and wave activity noted around the time of photic stimulation and also as the patient becomes drowsy.
Shifting slowing in the posterior regions, L>R
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The background slowing and disorganization is a nonspecific finding and can be seen in the context of a toxic or metabolic encephalopathy or other diffuse disturbances of cerebral function.  The poorly defined posteriorly predominant spike and wave activity may represent an inherited trait or is secondarily generalized mechanism for seizures.  Correlation with imaging my be of value.





