CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 40-year-old woman evaluated for new onset seizures in March, the patient admitted with tonic-clonic seizure and then was increasingly confused.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, Keppra, oxycodone, Ativan, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient had received Ativan in the EEG lab because of electrographic seizures associated with confusion.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the initial hours of the EEG, the patient demonstrated an ongoing, ictal/postictal pattern.  As noted in the baseline EEG, the patient appeared to have a later form of status epilepticus at the beginning with periodic complexes and rhythmic epileptiform activity.  Ongoing ictal activity with clear cut, rhythmic, repetitive theta activity was noted as early as 12:18.  The activity is best reviewed in an average reference with a high amplitude, anterior temporal sharp waves, and fast activity.  Repetitive seizures are noted with waxing and waning in the right anterior temporal region maximum T2/S8.  Additional more clearly defined seizures are seen at 2:58, 3:27.
The patient is quite restless. She has unusual behavior, but is often communicative.  In some cases, the complex partial seizures are not recognized by the family.  The patient has unusual behavior, turning to the left, ignoring the family, but the family does not seem to recognize this as epileptiform activity.  Additional ictal discharges were noted at 6:06 and 6:11.  Overall, in the initial hours, the activity seems to wax and wane from an ictal to a postictal pattern.  This activity seems to be abating by 9:29.  Unfortunately, the patient starts removing the epileptiform activity.  With the available data by 11 a.m. seems did demonstrate a reduction in the periodic complexes in the right frontotemporal and anterior temporal region.
Unfortunately, due to the patient's behavior, there is no additional valuable data after 11 p.m.
Heart rate: /NA.
IMPRESSION:  Day 1 of continuous EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
Complex partial seizures noted in the initial hours of recording, gradually slowing by 11:00 p.m.
Ongoing confusion.
Markedly slow pattern noted from the right hemisphere with focal slowing in the periodic activity.
More of a theta pattern on the left.
Clinical correlation:  This EEG is diagnostic of a status epilepticus pattern, but the pattern did appear to be improving by the end of this section of the record.



