CLINICAL HISTORY:  Patient is a 25-year-old man with a history of a left parieto-occipital tumor removal at the age of 12, who now presents with worsening aphasia and right hemiparesis.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include Depakote, Vimpat, phenobarbital, clonazepam, and 8 mg of Versed total at around 12 p.m. and an extra dose of Depakote 500 mg administered at approximately 1 a.m.
CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10/20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The recording was reviewed intermittently by the attending physician during the recording epoch.  Medical staff notes and the nursing notes were reviewed.  The patient was equipped with the event button.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms at high amplitudes over the left hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere consists of a low amplitude 9 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the right.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere consists of 8-9 Hz activity.  There is no clear anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the left hemisphere.  Additional theta and delta activity is observed over the left hemisphere.  Delta activity is especially pronounced anteriorly.  Degree of diffuse theta and delta increases after approximately 12 p.m.  This increase is transient, and is related to  administration of 8 mg of Versed.  A prolonged left occipital electrographic seizure is observed.  It starts at approximately 11:35 a.m. and ends at approximately 12:30 p.m.  Seizure stops after initiation of 8 mg of Versed total seizures start over the left occipital region and gradually spreads throughout the left hemisphere with reflection towards the right hemisphere.  After administration of Versed, seizure settles over the left occipital region and stays there until approximately 12:30 p.m.   Clinically seizure is characterized by decreased alertness as well as rhythmic little lateral horizontal nystagmus to the right.
FINDINGS:
A single prolonged approximately 1 hour focal seizure that starts over the left occipital region.  Seizure stops after 8 mg of Versed.
Mild diffuse slowing, most especially pronounced after Versed administration.
Continuous focal moderate left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced anteriorly.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 24-hour continuous audio/video EEG monitoring due to continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing most pronounced anteriorly and a single prolonged left occipital quadrant seizure.  Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology and is consistent with patient's history of a prior tumor resection from the left posterior occipital region.  Slowing is also at least partially related to the postictal phenomenon.  There is an epileptogenic focus emanating from the left occipital region.



