History:		60 year old woman status post GBM resection, now presents with seizures and worsening mental status.
Medications:	DEPAKOTE, KEPPRA,VIMPAT
Sedation:
EEG Type:
Technique:
Continuous (inpt, video),24 hrs
International 1'0-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for -18 hours from 4/28/2015 till 4/29/2015.  Nursing­ initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient. Background consists almost entirely of low voltage irregular 4-7Hz activity. States changes are noted and symmetrical sleep spindles are observed.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right posterior quadrant. Continuous periodic and semi-periodic sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves (PLEDs and quasi-PLEDs) are noted over the right posterior quadrant with a repetition rate of 0.5-1 Hz. Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T6/P4 lead.
Brief (-40 sec to 120 sec) very focal right posterior quadrant (02 lead maximally) subclinical seizures are captured. They vary in frequency from up to 4-5 per hour to no seizures for several hours. Seizures are characterized by low amplitude fast activity best seen over the 02 lead that gradually evolves in rhythmic -2- 3 Hz right posterior quadrant delta activity.
Summary of Findings:	.
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right posterior Seizure, intermittent, right posterior, no clinical correlate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 18 hour continuous video EEG due to (1) diffuse moderate slowing;(2) continuous moderate right posterior quadrant focal slowing; (3) right posterior quadrant periodic epileptiform discharges and (4) right posterior quadrant very focal subclinical seizures. These findings are indicative of a focal structural lesion in the right posterior quadrant, consistent with the known brain tumor. Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction. These findings . were conveyed to the primary team.




