History:	52 year old woman who presents with cerebritis and recurrent seizures.
Medications:	LOVENOX, INSULIN, ACYCLOVIR,Phenobarbital
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
attenuated, low voltage beta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  There are intermittent left fronto-temporal spikes and sharp waves seen
maximal at F7.  A single electrographic seizure was seen at 4:03AM on 4/18. The patient's face
was obscured by the ICU equipment next to the bed.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Seizure, single, left frontotemporal
Spikes, intermittent, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG because of diffuse background attenuation, excess beta
activity, intermittent left frontotemporal spikes, and single left frontotemporal electrographic
seizure.  These findings suggest a structural left frontotemporal brain lesion with epileptiform
potential.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

