CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 62-year-old gentleman, status post respective brain tumor surgery 15 years ago followed by radiation.  The patient subsequently developed refractory epilepsy and medication nonadherence.  Frequent ER care for breakthrough seizures.  Admitted through the EEG Lab today and found to have positive tox screen for cocaine and barbiturates.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Phenobarbital, Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was initiated using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  This 24 hour section captures wakefulness and sleep.  The patient did not think that he had any clinical seizures during the EEG.  In addition, he did note that he felt a little spacey at times.
There are various descriptions for seizures including head turning and arm elevation as well as tonic clonic activity.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The initial hours of the record, the EEG is remarkable for a slow pattern on the left.  A prominent breach is seen from the right with fast activity.  Particularly in the area of time between 10 p.m. and 1 a.m., there are sections of record with a fast activity in the region of the right central breach, does seem to evolve.  There are also some sections where there seems to be some evolving theta noted in the left frontotemporal region.  There are no clinical signs or symptoms noted with this.

At 12:21 a.m., there are some periodic sharp waves noted again in the right frontotemporal region.
Overnight recording, the patient manages to loosen some of his electrodes.  No clinical seizures are noted.
By the daytime of the 6th, stage 2 sleep is identified.  Some sections of the record include sharp waves at F8 but also in the left frontotemporal region.
Various epileptiform discharges were identified in stage 2 sleep including high amplitude spikes from the right hemisphere as well as others that seem to emanate from the F8 region likely in the region of the patient's breach.  Others include T6.
Heart rate 72 BPM.
IMPRESSION:
This 24-hour section of EEG is remarkable for what may well be subtle seizures particularly in the first hour or two of recording.
Markedly abnormal background with more arrhythmic slowing on the right compared to the left.
Multiple foci of epileptiform activity including right hemisphere, right frontotemporal region, right posterotemporal region and even the left midtemporal region.
INTERVAL CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In comparison to the patient's baseline EEG performed prior to initiation of antiepileptic drug therapy, the epileptiform activity seems to be markedly improved.



