CLINICAL A 48-year-old woman with refractory epilepsy, admitted to ICU alter 4 seizures.

MEDICATIONS: Zonisamide, Keppra, Vimpat Versed drip
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG Is performed at the bedside In the ICU using standard 10-20 system
of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. he patient was Intubated and poorly responsive, but
she was responsive. No clinical seizures were noted on the tracing. Continuous seizure and spike
detection software were utilized. This was a technically satisfactory study.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The interictal EEG demonstrates a diffusely slow pattern, compatible with pharmacologic coma. The overall background is medium amplitude with mixed beta, theta, and alpha frequency activity.

Intermittent bursts of higher amplitude alpha frequency activity were identified. In the initial sections of the record. these seem to be artifactual with a somewhat unusual field of spread, a little bit mare left frontal and then spread to right posterior. As the recording continues. these bursts of 10 Hz frequency of activity start to stow to 9Hz. In addition, on some occasions there seems to be a right frontal sharp wave.
Utilizing different techniques, the activity Is clearly highest amplitude in the left anterior temporal region. but there seems to be an underlying 8 Hz notched, almost a spike and wave. discharge In the right hemisphere, which is picked up In the right posterior temporal region. In addition, at 2:00a.m .. the activity is longer In duration with a little bit of muscle artifact.

Interictal discharges:
1. Likely interictal discharges for this individual include the bursts of paroxysmal alpha frequency
activity with unusual localization and unusual fields.
2. Likely frontal sharp waves. right or left maximum.

Seizures: Three electrographic seizures were noted on the morning of October 2, including 4:49 a.m.5:27 a.m. and 5:59a.m. Seizure duration is approximately 1 minute. typically just under 60 seconds.
The patient seems to be obtunded during the electrographic seizures, no clinical features could be noted on the video. Seizures were characterized by the appearance of repetitive 3 to 4 Hz activity, maximum in the left temporal region with frequency evolution. The epileptiform activity seems to march on despite the bursts of 10Hz frontal fast activity on the right. By 18 seconds Into the seizure, there Is some bilateral activity. Of note, the third seizure at 5:59 is a bit longer.

The system uploads at 6:0916:39, and there is a seizure noted at 6:38 just as the EEG Is paused. This fourth seizure occurs with physician at bedside. It is difficult to determine if there is a clinical change in the patients behavior and/or If the patient was stimulated during the seizure because of the fact that the physicians are standing In front of the patient

Each seizure ends with rhythmic repetitive slowing and then background suppression and briefly, particularly after the first seizure. there is prominent beta activity. In addition, some of the bursts of alpha frequency activity when reviewed at a slower paper speed, clearly have an attenuation.


IMPRESSION:  This 24-hour video EEG monitoring is remarkable for:
1.	An unusual interictal epileptiform discharge with prominent alpha frequency activity with some variability.   Particularly in later portions of the record. the overall background can be seen to attenuate, suggesting that these bursts of alpha frequency activity are clearly an interictal epileptiform signature.
2. 	Frontal sharp waves or spikes, which are relatively are .
3.	Electrographic seizures from the left temporal region which can occur and march through the bursts of fast frontal activity and localize to the left temporal region.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG supports an ongoing clearly epileptiform pattern and additional
EEG recording will be obtained.



