CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 67-year-old male with generalized tonic clonic seizures, admitted on the 14th with recurrent tonic-clonic seizures, CT with left encephalomalacia.
MEDICATIONS:
INTRODUCTION:  A 20-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Photic stimulation was completed.  Hyperventilation was not possible.  The patient appeared to be drowsy, but was oriented during the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG was markedly disorganized.  The overall background includes a theta pattern bilaterally.  There is significantly more arrhythmic delta activity in the right hemisphere particularly right posterior quadrant.  Somewhat poorly defined left posterior temporal sharp waves were noted.  There was a significant amount of EKG artifact noted, but in addition to that, there are some underlying left mid to anterior temporal sharp waves noted.  As the recording continues, stimulation of the patient produces more of an alerting response and at times a glimpse of a 10 Hz alpha rhythm, which is better represented on the left in comparison to the right.  The patient then drifts off to sleep.
Photic stimulation was performed at the close of the record.  That did serve to alert the patient, but there was a subtle driving response again better represented on the left.
Heart rate 96 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due.
Bilateral background slowing and disorganization.
Superimposed arrhythmic delta activity, which is more prominent in the right hemisphere particularly right posterior quadrant.
In this sharply contoured record, with significant EKG artifact, there are some left posterior temporal and left mid temporal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In comparison to a previous study, this EEG demonstrates more significant focal slowing on the right.  In addition, there are more significant focal features noted on the right in comparison to the left.  Correlation with imaging and clinical exam is suggested.



