History:	63 YR MALE WITH H/O SEIZURES.  PER PT SZS WHERE INFREQUENT UNTIL
1ST WK SEPT. HAD SEVERAL WITH BAD FALL. GTC/  PMHX: SZ, CAD/CABG 07,
COPD, HTN, CKD, PAD STENT RLE, MRSA
Medications:	KEPPRA, DILANTIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Occasional rhythmic delta activity is present in the left midtemporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  An electrographic seizure is recorded beginning with a rhythmic 4-5
Hz discharge seen best over the left anterior and mid temporal region (F7/T3) and evolving into 2-3
Hz activity. As the seizure slows down it  remains over the left hemisphere. Overall the EEG slow
down as the patient becomes drowsy to a background composed of mainly theta then delta
frequencies. The seizure last ~2 minutes and 45 seconds.  On the video the patient suddenly stops
moving and stares. He turns his head slightly to the left and blinks. The technician asks him to keep
his eyes closed but he does not follow the command and speaks garbled incomprehensible speech.
The tech applies  some sternal pressure and asks for his name. The patient states "no" and slightly
shakes his head side to side. After this the patient moves his mouth and lips smacks intermittently but
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  Hr was 66
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, single, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, left temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of a clinical and electrographic seizure
arising from the left anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of an epileptogenic focus in
this region. In addition there is  occasional focal slowing in the left anterior temporal region.  This
finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.
sleep spindles and K complexes appear. otherwise remains motionless with his eyes closed.



