History:	92 year old man found down with left arm shaking and difficulty speaking, found to
have a right lacunar infarct. Evaluate possible status epilepticus.
Medications:	DILANTIN, KEPPRA, ATIVAN
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No clear posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
low voltage theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.
There is a clear hemispheric asymmetry seen with continuous right posterior temporal periodic
epileptiform discharges (PEDs) and field spread with low voltage beta activity over the left
hemisphere.  In between the PEDs, the background shows attenuation.  Background consists almost
entirely of low voltage irregular 4-7Hz activity.  PEDs are superimposed on this activity (see below).
No normal sleep architecture was present.
There is intermittent right hemispheric delta activity.  There are very frequent and nearly
continuous periodic epileptiform discharges (PEDs) seen over the right posterior temporal central
and occipital region maximal at C4-P4-T6.  The PEDs occur at either 1Hz runs lasting 10-30
seconds, or intermittent organized 1.5Hz bursts in the same region.  As a clinical correlate, the
bursts of PEDs are often though not always, associated with left arm and shoulder twitching. There
is no clear correlate to the 1Hz runs of PEDs.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was minimal reactivity to
auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.  The patient is obtunded but exhibits some reactivity to voice
and noxious stimuli with eye opening.
Summary of Findings:
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), continuous, right posterior quadrant
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), intermittent, right posterior quadrant, bursts
Attenuation, continuous diffuse


This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video-EEG because of background attenuation, diffuse slowing,
right focal slowing, right sided PEDs, and brief right posterior temporal electrographic seizures.
These findings are indicative of a structural brain lesion with highly epileptiform potential over the
right hemisphere. The bursts of PEDs likely reflect brief seizures and overall the record suggests
status epilepticus.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.






