History:	PRIOR EEG 65 YO PT WITH CHILDHOOD EPILEPSY AFTER MENINGITIS. PT
CLAIMS TO HAVE 2 - 3 SZ A MONTH WITH LOC, CONTINENCE LASTING 15 MIN
. PT WANTS TO SLEEP AFTER REACHING BASELINE.
Medications:	TEGRETOL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Very frequent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral mid and anterior temporal
regions.  Right anterior temporal intermittent rhythmic activity (TIRDA) is noted  Very frequent focal
sharp waves are present in the bilateral anterior temporal region, with phase reversal and amplitude
maximum at F7/T3, T3, F8/T4 and T4. The discharges became more prominent and frequent in
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR is
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent, bilateral temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, bilateral temporal
TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, right temporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of frequent epileptiform discharges in the
bilateral temporal region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this
region, and given the clinical history of partial seizures, are consistent with a diagnosis of
localization-related epilepsy.In addition there is  intermittent focal slowing in the bilateral temporal
region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.
No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.

