History:	47 YO FEMALE WITH HX OF SZ. C/O HAVING 2 - 3 SZ'S / DAY. CAN'T
REMEMBER ANYTHING ABOUT THEM.
Medications:	Neurontin, Klonopin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from 05/13/2014 to 05/14/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.    Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	4
Description of pushbutton events
See above
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Mild excessive 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present diffusely but
maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta
activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR was
60  Four episodes of head and body irregular low amplitude shaking while unresponsive lasting
from 1- 6 minutes. With a post event confusion, and difficulty with speech and crying.  EEG during
the events revealed a normal awake background.
Summary of Findings:
No epileptiform discharges
Interpretation:
This is a NORMAL EEG, awake, drowsy, and asleep. Multiple shaking events with no EEG correlate.
This are consistent with psychogenic non-epileptic events.
.



