CLINICAL HISTORY:  Epilepsy, multiple strokes in the right PCA territory.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient had one episode on the morning of November 9, 2012 with impaired speech and difficulty using the left arm.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Random wakefulness and sleep:  In wakefulness there are sections of the record with a relatively symmetric background and subtle, if any, focal slowing in the right hemisphere.  The alpha rhythm on the right is starting to reemerge.  Subtle focal slowing is noted in the right central parietal region.

Occasional wicket is noted as the patient drifts off to sleep.
There are a number of transients noted in the transition to sleep which have a mitten like appearance, but no definite spike and wave complexes.
At 9:10 p.m. on November 8, 2012 there is a burst of rhythmic activity from the right hemisphere.  There is no push button or clinical information to suggest that this was considered to be a seizure.
The sleep section of the record demonstrates disrupted sleep.  There are a number of mitten-like discharges which may represent subtle, spike and wave complexes.
Seizures:  Time 7:00 a.m.  The clinical team was aware of the seizure, but did not press the button.  By 7:00 a.m. there is some subtle activity with a bit more rhythmic slowing emanating from the right hemisphere.  By 7:06 a.m. more clear, rhythmic slowing is noted from the right hemisphere.  The physician comes in to examine the patient.  There is a great deal of muscle and movement artifact during the event.  The clinical symptoms are associated with rhythmic activity, which is relatively prolonged.  In addition, the patient is moving about quite a bit.  The activity lasts until 7:56 and then disappears.
This discharge was associated with a clinical change in the patient's state and should be considered and epileptiform seizure.
INTERIM IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Focal slowing is noted from the right, congruent with a stroke, but there was a clinical seizure at approximately 7:00 a.m., which was relatively prolonged with rhythmic activity.



