History:	70 year old male evaluated for an episode of sudden onset dizziness and near
syncope. He has a history of seizures at the age 19 years old.  He was treated for
one year and he has been seizure- free since then.
Medications:	Hydrocodone
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by low -to-moderate amplitude 10-10.5Hz alpha rhythm, which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present,
maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-
7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.
Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the bitemporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  This delta and theta activity is more pronounced over
the left temporal region and is also present over the left central region.  No epileptiform discharges
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.  A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate of ~ 60
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, mild, bilateral temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left, temporal and central, mild-to-moderate
No stage 2 sleep
No epileptiform discharges
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 42-minute EEG due to intermittent mild-to-moderate left
temporal and central focal slowing. This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  Bitemporal slowing that is also seen in
this patient is not a pathological finding since certain degree of bitemporal slowing is considered
normal in individuals over the age of 65 years old.  No epileptiform discharges are present, but
stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep recording may



