REASON FOR STUDY:  Recurrent seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software including nurse's note as well as reviewing the EEG was performed though the whole 24 hours and used to further evaluate the recording.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, Dilantin, Keppra.
HISTORY:  A 25-year-old man with seizure, right-sided after left brain tumor resection now with recurrent multiple seizures refractory to medications and status epilepticus.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to background that has a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 8.5 Hz over the right hemisphere at times and is reactive to eye opening.  However, over the left hemisphere, there is no posterior dominant rhythm, no clear normal frontocentral beta seen.  The patient appears to have wakefulness and sleep stage changes with some normal sleep architecture.  Activating procedures were not performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Continuous focal slowing seen over the left hemisphere, maximal at T3, a frequency of 2-4 Hz, amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  There is a symmetric amplitude over this hemisphere compared to the rest consistent with a breach over the left hemisphere.
SEIZURES:  During the first 2 hours of the recording, there appeared to be intermittent rhythmic discharges at 1 Hz starting and stopping suddenly arising from the left occipital region maximal at 01 with some T5/ P3 component.  This are sometimes prolong, lasting for more than 40 seconds and consisting with electrographic seizures.  They were seen for about a period of 2 hours and no longer seen in the rest of the recording.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left hemisphere focal slowing, maximal in the mid temporal region in addition to multiple electrographic seizures arising from the left occipital and parietal region occurring mainly at the beginning of the recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence multiple electrographic seizures arising from the left occipital and parietal region which improves after the first 4 hours in the morning.   In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction over the left hemisphere, maximal at the mid temporal region, which is consistent with the known tumor resection.  These findings were reported to the primary team.



