AGE: 35 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY : 12/11/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT : inpatient 508 BED B
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min , awake and drowsy and stage II sleep EEG #: 15-1797
HISTORY:
35 y.o. female with a history of xanax withdrawal , borderline personality disorder referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.
MEDICATIONS:
No current outpatient prescriptions on file.
No current facility-administered medications listed for this visit.
SEDATION : none reported TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a	Bedside portable technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG but no HV nor	photic stimulation.		The patient was sometimes confused.
EEG BACKGROUND :
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity , organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient. Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 10.2 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.	The wake background includes excess beta and mild excess theta.	The patient is remarkably drowsy and testing was performed to ensure maximal wakefulness
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and
K-complexes.	Abundant stage II sleep with generous beta was noted
Slow wave sleep was not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.	No focal slowing is present. EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 108 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is a mildly	abnormal drowsy and asleep	routine EEG.	There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
excess beta
excess theta CLINICAL CORRELATION:
Medications can play a role in the excess beta and theta described above.	This EEG supports a mild disturbance of cerebral function, nonspecific in terms of etiology.
This routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.	If epilepsy is an important consideration, a follow up study in the lab maybe considered.



