History:	82 year old female with primary respiratory arrest and witnessed seizure.
Medications:	None
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present. Much of the background is severely attenuated and
suppressed.  Over time, the background is characterized by a burst suppression pattern in which
there are diffuse bursts of bilateral spikes associated with clinical myoclonus seen on the video.
There is diffuse attenuation.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Frequent bilateral periodic epileptiform discharges (BiPLEDs) are
present during the bursts which are accompanied by myoclonus.  BiPLEDs are also seen that are not
associated with myoclonus.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
BiPLEDs (bilateral periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges, intermittent, bilateral diffuse
Attenuation, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Burst-suppression pattern, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL24 hour video EEG because of diffuse and severe background attenuation, a
burst-suppression pattern, BiPLEDs, and clinical myoclonus.   These findings are etiologically
nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Burst-suppression pattern carries a
grave prognosis for meaningful neurological recovery.  BiPLEDs suggest diffuse brain injury with
epileptiform potential.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





