CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 38-year-old woman with a history of seizures for two years, focal twitching of her right upper and lower extremities with jerking movements. History of cerebrovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension, left carotid stent secondary to fibromuscular dysplasia.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Neurontin, and Valproate.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient has received generous doses of Ativan on the night of hospitalization.
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP: In maximum wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with a 10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.  In the initial portions of the record, when the patient has received generous quantities of benzodiazepines, there is generous beta frequency activity.   Stage I sleep includes symmetric vertex waves and stage II sleep includes symmetric vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.
EVENTS:  The patient experienced one of her typical seizures on the morning of the 13th at approximately 8:42 AM.  The patient felt the need to go to the bathroom. She got up off camera and the event occurred while she was in the bathroom, but the EEG, NOT VIDEO, was recorded.
The EEG for this event was reviewed including the activity at 8:42 through 9:02:16 and 9:05.  The record demonstrates a normal awake pattern throughout.  Despite some movement, the EEG remains interpretable.  Looking at the video, before the patient gets out of bed, she seems to be uncomfortable, perhaps light-headed or experiencing pain as seen at 8:48:08.  By the time she gets up and out of bed, she seems to be more comfortable.  There is eye blink seen in the EEG and a heart rate of 112 bpm.  No EEG changes are identified with the event, which occurred primarily off camera.  The event was reviewed with the patient and the nurse who determined that after the patient was placed back in her bed, she continued to have some unilateral motor activity on the right, however, this is partly obscured by the nurse standing in front of the camera. In any case, no epileptiform activity was seen.




