History:	62 YR MALE S/P CODE VFIB 11:22 AM. APPEARS APPROX 8 MIN. PT NOW
SEDATED AND COOLED BODY TEMP 31.4' PT PMHX: CAD S/P CABG GI BLEED,
PROSTATE CA.
Medications:	PROPOFOL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, asleep, lethargic, obtunded, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 89 hours from 07/03/2015 to 07/07/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Day 1: Background activity was characterized by a burst
suppression pattern with burst consisting of diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence
of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  Day 2: Background progressively
becomes more continuous diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected
anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  Day 3: continuous diffuse low voltage delta and theta
activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  Day 4:
Background activity is predominantly irregular 50-75uV, 6-7Hz activity, with absence of the normal
anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Intermittent bifrontal sharp waves that increase in frequency and
amplitude lasting for about 30 seconds up to 15 minutes, some start and stop. No correlate to the
pattern was seen in the video. The pattern is most consistent with electrographic seizures.  At times
some of them appear to be reactive to stimulation and consistent with stimulus induced rhythmic
periodic ictal discharges (SIRPIDs). These are seen starting the morning of day 2 and stop after ~
6pm on day 3 (pt was loaded with phenytoin).
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 60
Summary of Findings:
Burst-suppression pattern, continuous, marked diffuse
Seizure, intermittent, electrographic
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 89 hour EEG because of intermittent electrographic seizures arising and
SIRPIDs from the bifrontal region. In addition there is diffuse slowing which progressively improves
from severe burst suppression to moderate. This finding is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction which  is non-specific with regards to etiology.





