CLINICAL HISTORY:  38 year old left handed woman with a previous right temporal resection in 2007.  Now with daily or weekly complex partial seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Celexa.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Photic stimulation and hyperventilation were performed. The patient had a seizures during the EEG.  She was very confused and as a result, she was sent to the clinic for further evaluation.  By discharge from the clinic, her mental status had returned to baseline.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 10.7 Hz alpha rhythm.  The alpha rhythm is vigorous at 40 mV, but the overall background is relatively low voltage.  At higher sensitivities, an asymmetry between the right and left temporal regions can be seen and there is lower voltage, 3-6 Hz activity in the left temporal region, mostly lower voltage delta.  Breach rhythm is noted with accentuation of fast activity at C4.  Features of drowsiness include an increase in background slowing as well as attenuation of the alpha rhythm.
Hyperventilation produces an increase in the alpha rhythm and an overall increase in amplitude.  As the patient drifts into sleep, more rhythmic 3-4 Hz activity is picked up at T2-C4.  Again, this is all relatively low voltage record.  There are brief vertex waves which are asymmetric and spindles are also heightened a bit on the right.  POSTs are noted in stage 2 sleep.  The breach rhythm is relatively prominent in sleep, but there are no sharp waves or spikes noted.
During photic stimulation, the patient has a complex partial seizure.  This seizure begins at 11:24:19.  The patient opens her eyes and looks to the right.  She is confused.  She moves around and the technologist has difficulty getting her to hold still.  At 12:25:06, she remains confused.  The behavioral aspects of this seizure are quite prolonged.  The EEG aspects are very challenging, though.  There is muscle artifact noted in the EEG while the patient moves around.  It is difficult to see much in the way of the EEG changes for this individual.  The patient is noted to look to the right, not the left at the beginning of the seizure.  Despite the background issues, at 11:24:53 underneath all of this, the EEG is clearly slow and at 11:25:07, there is very clearly a change in the background EEG with a theta pattern with primarily 5-6 Hz activity and then at 11:26:21, the EEG is interpretable and the EEG remains normal despite the fact that the patient is quite confused.  The patient is monitored throughout the remainder of the EEG, which is 26 minutes in duration.  She is still somewhat confused, but the confusion is improving.  Some focal slowing is seen, but it is quite minor.
HR:    50-60 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
A complex partial seizure which was not at all localized by this EEG and was associated with at least a brief period with generalized theta.
Focal slowing in the left hemisphere including central temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The breach rhythm is an anticipated finding following craniectomy.  The focal slowing was relatively subtle.  The seizure was remarkable for a paucity of epileptiform activity.



