CLINICAL HISTORY: 22 year old left handed male with post traumatic epilepsy, frontal skull
defect, seizure-free for the last 10 years.

MEDICATIONS: None.

INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of
electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic simulation are
performed. This is an awake and asleep record.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a well-defined alpha rhythm of 10
Hz, 40 microvolts. Breech rhythm as well as some focal slowing is noted in the right hemisphere more prominent in the right posterior quadrant. Generous beta activity is observed. As the patient becomes drowsy, the breech rhythm becomes more prominent. In addition, there are a handful of sharp waves noted during the 13 Hz photic stimulation. These are more prominent in the occipital regions and can be identified bilateral but, in fact, are more prominent in the left central parietal region than the right. Following hyperventilation as the patient becomes drowsy, asymmetric vertex activity is noted but again the right central parietal sharp wave can be identified, maximum at C3. As the patient transitions into stage II sleep with spindles, this activity becomes less prominent.

HR: 90 bpm

IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG in wakefulness through stage II sleep due to:
1. The appearance of left central parietal sharp waves that at times with much more generous
fields of spread emerging in early drowsiness and persisting but then disappearing as the
patient achieves significant stage II sleep.
2. Breech rhythm on the right.
3. Rare right occipital delta.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG differs from the previous EEG of 11/24/2009, in that the
sharp waves are seen in the left central region. T5 sharp waves were seen in the previous
study. These findings may be correlated with the patient's imaging and clinical history but the report provided through the technologist is that the patient remains seizure-free off seizure medications.





