CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 56-year-old man with a history of seizures since the age of 18, currently admitted to the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit for a differential diagnosis of his events.
MEDICATIONS:  Tegretol extended release 600 mg twice a day, Abilify 15 mg daily, and ciprofloxacin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm reaches 9.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  Intermittent runs of bifrontal monomorphic theta activity, right greater than left is observed during wakefulness.  During sleep  symmetrical sleep spindles, vertex waves, K complexes, slow wave sleep  and several epochs of REM sleep are captured.  Sleep is fragmented.  Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity is observed over the right anterior temporal region.  Additionally,  independent right greater than left sharp waves with after going slow waves are observed  occasionally over the anterior temporal regions, with maximal scalp negativity over F8/T2 and F7/T1 electrodes,  respectively.  No typical events of  electrographic seizures captured.
FINDINGS:
Mild right anterior temporal slowing.
Occasional independent right greater than left sharp waves with after going slow waves.
No seizures or typical events.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 18 hour continuous audio video EEG monitoring due to mild right anterior temporal slowing and occasional, right greater than left bilateral anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.  Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.  There is epileptogenic focus emanating from the bilateral anterior temporal regions, right greater than left.  No typical events or electrographic seizures captured.



