INTRODUCTION:
A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal electrode and an EKG electrode. The patient was recorded in wakefulness and drowsiness. Photic stimulation was performed, but no hyperventilation.
MEDICATIONS:
Protonix, aspirin, heparin, morphine, metoprolol, and Zocor.
CLINICAL PROBLEMS:
Frequent movement artifact.
HISTORY:
A 64-year-old woman with a history of diabetes, osteoporosis, spinal fusion, depression, sleep apnea, and lyme disease, Who presented with worsening mental status for several days and then discharged, now appears to be worse and found to have recent evolving inferior left parietal occipital infarct.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:
The records opens to slow background in the theta frequencies with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 7.5 Hz with 20 to 40 microvolts amplitude. There seem to be a small marked amplitude asymmetry with increased amplitude on the posterior dominant rhythm and other and faster frequencies over the left hemisphere. Over the posterior dominant rhythm that appeared to reactive eye opening and eye closing. Some frontal central beta seen again decreased on the left hemisphere. Photic stimulation does not produce any abnormal discharges. Sleep stage I seen.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
1. Left hemisphere hemispheric slow waves maximal in the anterior temporal region at 73 beta frequency of 4 to 5 Hz, and 2 to 5 Hz, and an amplitude of 20 to 30 of 240 microvolts.
2. Right anterior temporal focal slow waves at T2 out a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and amplitude of20 to 50 microvolts.
3. Generalized slow waves at a frequency of 5 to 7 Hz with amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts.
IMPRESSION:
An abnormal EEG due to left more than right focal cerebral dysfunction in addition to generalized low left more than the right focal slow waves as well as generalized slow waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left interior temporal region in the left hemisphere maximum on the left anterior temporal region, which is consistent with a known stroke. There is also evidence of independent cerebral dysfunction in the right anterior temporal region, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology. Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology. No seizures or epileptiform activity were seen.



