CLINICAL HISTORY:  73 year old right handed man with a history of subdural resection and seizures, transferred from an outside hospital with seizures, receiving 8 mg of Ativan and Dilantin.  Questionable CT from outside hospital with right subdural and midline shift.

MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Dilantin

REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long term monitoring  EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or normal frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures were not performed and no normal sleep architecture was seen.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
1. Focal sharp waves are seen in the left hemisphere, at times maximal in the F7 region with a slight lag, finishing with maximality at O1 at a frequency of 1 to 2 Hz with an amplitude of about 40 to 70 microvolts, consistent with periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLED's).  These PLED's do not evolve and maintain rhythmicity throughout the recording.
2. Focal slowing in the right anterior temporal region at F8/T4 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz with an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts and associated increasing faster frequencies consistent with a breach.
3. Generalized slow waves at 2 to 4 Hz seen throughout the recording.

SEIZURES:  None.




IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Left hemispheric PLED's.
2. Right anterior temporal focal slowing and breach in the setting of generalized slow waves.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This long term EEG reveals evidence of focal structural dysfunction irritability in the left hemisphere which is consistent with an acute structural lesion.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the right anterior temporal region which is consistent with the known surgery.  No seizures were seen.




