LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  22 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 62-year-old woman who presents with a 1 year history of new migraines.  The migraines are characterized as headaches accompanied by an aura of jagged circle/gray spots in both eyes lasting approximately 15 to 20 minutes.  She also has nausea and dizziness post events.  There is no loss of consciousness or seizure-like activity.  More recently her headaches and aura have become more frequent occurring about 2 times a day.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  None.
INTRODUCTION:  Condition of the recording:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well-formed and modulated 9 to 10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening. There is an anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies and lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During sleep the posterior dominant rhythm attenuates and theta becomes more prominent.  There is shifting bitemporal theta and delta captured over the bilateral temporal regions occurring more frequently over the left temporal region.  Ventilation increases the amount of theta and delta observed over the left temporal region.  Photic stimulation results in symmetrical occipital driving at multiple flash frequencies.
FINDINGS:
No epileptiform discharges.
No Stage II sleep.
Moderate shifting bitemporal slowing that is more pronounced over the left temporal region.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 22 minute awake and drowsy EEG due to moderate shifting bitemporal slowing that is more pronounced over the left temporal region.  These findings indicate possible structural dysfunction over the bitemporal regions that is more pronounced over the left temporal region.  No epileptiform discharges are captured, however, Stage II sleep is not recorded.  If clinical indication for seizures persist, a repeat study with Stage II sleep may be of benefit.



