History:	61 YEAR OLD FEMALE RIGHT HANDED. NOW WITH ONSET OF SEIZURE AND
WORSENING OF MENTAL STATUS LIKELY DUE TO GROWTH OF TUMOR.
Medications:	KEPPRA,DEXAMETHASONE,TYLENOL,INSULIN,AMLODIPINE,FAMOTIDINE,
LOVENOX,ZOFRAN,OXYCODONE
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, drowsy
Description:
Background is characterized by disorganized and diffuse delta (2-3 Hz) and theta activity (5-6 Hz)
with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  Intermittent brief bursts
of diffuse, frontally-maximal polymorphic 2-3 Hz, 60-80 uV slow waves are observed during
wakefulness.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right posterior quadrant region maximum at
T6.  Independent Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left temporal region.
Occasional focal spike-and-wave discharges and sharp waves are present in the right temporal
region, with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at T6 as well as left posterior temporal region,
independently.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 55 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Disorganization diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, bilateral (R>L) temporal, posterior, independently
Sharp waves, right temporal and occipital and left temporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
Intermittent focal slowing in the bitemporal (greater on the right) region.  This finding is indicative
of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.
Occasional epileptiform discharges in the bitemporal regions.  These findings are indicative of
potentially epileptogenic foci in these regions.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.

