
CLINICAL HISTORY: 58-year-old woman with a 3 year history of dementia. Patient subsequently developed episodes with loss of balance and suffered a recent subdural hematoma. Past history of bipolar disease. The patient was diagnosed with Alzheimer disease 3 years ago and was told that the cause of her epilepsy is her memory disorder.

MEDICATIONS: Celexa, Keppra, pravastatin, Dilantin, Xanax, others.

INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. This is an awake and drowsy record. The patient Is at times a bit confused and testing was performed to confirm a maximally awake state. In wakefulness, there is a prominent asymmetry between the 2 hemispheres. There Is a 10Hz alpha rhythm noted on the left and a small amount of background theta on the left. The right hemisphere demonstrates significant disruption of faster frequency activity. In addition, sharply contoured delta was noted with a maximum at T4-C4. There are also some bursts of right frontal theta noted. Sharply contoured slowing or sharp waves which are nearly isoelectric at T2-T4 were Identified.

As the patient becomes drowsy, beta spindles were noted. The asymmetry with arrhythmic delta activity in the right becomes  prominent Lambda waves were noted at the close of the record when the patient was asked to do motor tasks. The rhythm was not elicited, but lambda was noted.

Heart rate 78 beats per minute.

IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Nearly continuous focal slowing from the right hemisphere. This is associated with disruption of taster frequency activity and is sharply contoured In the right centrotemporal region.
2. Right temporal sharp waves.
3. Mild background slowing and disorganization on the left.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: In comparison to a previous study this EEG is Improved There Is less in the way of bilateral slowing, there is no FIRDA. Epileptiform activity was only ipsilateral to the subdural hematoma at this time. Lambda is a normal finding.

