CLINICAL HISTORY:  51 year old left handed woman with onset of seizures about 3 months ago.  Seizures are characterized as aura of daze followed by bilateral hands up, finger wiggling, and inability to talk.  She then proceeds to have loss of consciousness and falls, generalized tonic-clonic convulsions with tongue biting.  She wakes up hours later.  The last such event was about a month ago.  Per the patient, she has been having this aura of daze for about 10 years.  Past medical history includes AIDS and drug abuse, with last use about 9 months ago.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Reyataz, Norvir, Epzicom, Ambien, Neurontin, Celexa.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm reaches 7 to 8 Hz during maximal wakefulness.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Additional polymorphic low amplitude theta is captured.  During sleep, vertex waves and sleep spindles are observed.  Hyperventilation is performed with a fair effort and produces no change in the background.  Photic stimulation produces occipital driving at high frequencies.  There is occasional polymorphic theta and delta captured over the left temporal region.
FINDINGS:
Mild diffuse slowing.
Occasional mild left temporal slowing.
Stage II sleep.
No epileptiform discharges.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal awake and asleep EEG due to:
Mild diffuse slowing.
Occasional mild left temporal slowing.
No epileptiform discharges are captured.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.  Of note, the patient had an episode of right leg shaking during hyperventilation with no abnormal EEG correlate.
When the patient was asked to stop the shaking, she did. Diffuse slowing indicates a mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction which is nonspecific in etiology.  Occasional left temporal slowing may indicate an underlying structural cerebral pathology.



