REASON FOR STUDY:  Weakness.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 57-year-old female with hypertension, stroke, pacemaker, diabetes, sleep apnea, found unresponsive, acting strange with right-sided weakness and right upper extremity shaking, found to have a new left MCA stroke.
MEDICATIONS:  Pantoprazole, aspirin, amiodarone, lisinopril.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while lethargic.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background that at times reach 7 Hz which appears to be somewhat reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta seen best over the right hemisphere and not the left.  Activating procedures were not performed.  No normal sleep architecture was seen.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen continuously over the left hemisphere, maximal at F7/T3 at an amplitude of 20-50 microvolts seen continuously throughout the recording.  In addition, there is a lack of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere.
Generalized slow waves at 5-7 Hz seen continuously throughout the recording and this is intermixed with an underlying background at times of delta 2-4 Hz generalized slowing.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to continuous left hemispheric slowing maximal in the anterior temporal region in addition to mild-to-moderate generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal structural dysfunction in the left hemisphere and maximal in the left anterior temporal region, which along with the loss of faster frequencies, is consistent with the known stroke.  In addition, there is evidence of mild-to-moderate generalized cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology and may be due in part to medication effect.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.



