History:	33 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O ? SZ ONSET X 4 YRS AGO. PT
REPORTS FEELING OF DEJA VU 3-4 X A MONTH ALONG WITH A STRONG
SMELL ( AURA )  ELECTRICAL WITH HA THAT OCCURS 30-40 X A DAY LASTING
FOR 10 SEC. EEG TO R/O SZ
Medications:	Prilosec
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 12Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and POSTS (positive
occipital sharp transients of sleep) and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric
No focal slowing is present.  A single left posterior temporal sharp transient is noted at ~3:43:35 pm.
Multiple brief events of colored visual sensations and electrical nasal sensations are without an
abnormal ictal correlate.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing and  tachycardia (HR up to ~110)  Stepped photic stimulation from
1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.
Summary of Findings:
POSTS (positive occipital sharp transients of sleep)
No stage 2 sleep
Other, Multiple brief events of colored visual sensations and electrical nasal sensations are
Sharp transients, one, left temporal, posterior
Interpretation:
This is a NORMAL ~80 minute EEG, awake and drowsy.  No epileptiform discharges were present,
but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep recording may
provide additional information. The single sharply contoured waveform is of unclear clinical
significance.  Multiple brief events of colored visual sensations and electrical nasal sensations are
without an abnormal ictal correlate.  However, only ~25% of simple partial seizures are captured on


