CLINICAL HISTORY:  Refractory epilepsy with seizure on the 27th.
MEDICATIONS:  Levetiracetam, lacosamide, rescue dose of Ativan, and 2 doses of phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the LTM unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The recording begins when the patient was in a postictal state.  No clinical events were noted.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
The background EEG demonstrates a markedly abnormal pattern.  In wakefulness, there is a 7-8 Hz posterior dominant rhythm with excess background theta.  Particularly in the initial portions of the record, arrhythmic delta activity was noted in the left temporal region.
As the recording continues, there is a decrease in epileptiform activity, particularly when the patient is awake and engage in activities such as eating.  An 8.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm was noted and the focal slowing is improved.  On the morning of the 28th, bursts of rhythmic left frontal slowing with frontotemporal sharp waves were noted, but no clinical seizures, and overall, the epileptiform activity was markedly reduced by the morning of the 28th
SLEEP: Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTs.  The during some sections of the sleep record, left anterior temporal sharp waves are noted as well as right frontal with the right frontal sharp waves having field including FP2, F8/T2 in the left anterior temporal at F7, T1, and T3.

Seizures: None
Epileptiform detections: independent  Left Anterior Temporal, independent R Frontal/temporal
Heart rate 78 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  24-hour video EEG monitoring remarkable for:
Prominent epileptiform activity noted from either temporal regions with somewhat different fields of spread.
Initially left temporal focal slowing, resolving.
Background slowing and disorganization also resolved.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports focal and potentially bihemispheric mechanism for epilepsy, congruent with the patient's neuro anatomy.  The 24-hour record does show an overall improving pattern.



