History:	43 Y/O PT WITH PMHX OF THYROID DISEASE AND SZS. SZ DESCRIBED AS
TONIC CLONIC SZ WITH LOC WITH DROWSINESS AND CONFUSION FOR 30
MINUTES. PT ALSO STATES THAT SHE HAS OTHER EPISODES OF STARING
AND IS UNAWARE. LAST EPISODE STARTED3 DAYS AGO
Medications:	Phenytoin, Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes, drowsy, lethargic
Description:
This recording captures the patient in a lethargic state.  Background activity is attenuated and
diffusely slow as well as hemispheric asymmetry due to right frontotemporal focal slowing and
attenuation.  No posterior dominant rhythm is present.  The normal anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies is not seen.  There are sleep spindles with higher amplitude on the left side.
Intermittent polymorphic low amplitude delta activity is present in the right temporal region.
Frequent focal sharp waves are present in the right frontotemporal region, maximum at F8, at times
in run with no evolution.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR is 75 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, bilateral (R>L)
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Focal slowing, polymorphic, right
Sharp waves, frequent, right frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing. These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Intermittent focal
slowing and attenuation in the right hemisphere region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral
dysfunction, which is consistent with the patient's history of right MCA and PCA stroke.  frequent
epileptiform discharges in the right frontotemporal region.  These findings are indicative of a
potentially epileptogenic focus in this region, and given the clinical history of partial seizures, are
consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy.  These findings were conveyed to the




