History:	56 year old woman who presents with focal status epilepticus.  Patient has a history
of stroke, focal seizures and HIV.
Medications:	Vimpat, Dilantin, Depakote and Ativan 2 mg
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~15 hours from 1/20/2015 till 1/21/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right consists of 7 Hz polymorphic theta activity posteriorly, polymorphic theta
activity and weak AP gradient.  The background over the left does not have clear PDR or AP
gradient.  It consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity, with more prominent delta
activity anteriorly.  Sleep cycles are clearly present.  Sleep spindles and vertex waves are noted.
Frequent left anterior sharp waves are present.  These discharges have a broad field with some
reflection over the right anterior leads.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over Fp1 electrode.  During
sleep, frequency and periodicity of these discharges increases to ~1 Hz PLEDs.  Two seizures are
captured early in the recording at ~ 4:28 PM and 6:08 PM, lasting ~70-80 seconds.  Seizures are
characterized by appearance of rhythmic theta and delta activity over the left hemisphere.
Patient is not tested during the first event.  But during the 2nd seizure patient is observed to stop
responding, following any commands or form any memories.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
Sharp waves, frequent, left frontal
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), intermittent, left frontal
Seizure, two, left hemispheric, early in the recording, ~70-80 sec each.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 15 hour video EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; (2)
continuous moderate focal left hemispheric slowing, especially over the left frontotemporal region;
(3) frequent left anterior epileptiform discharges that are occasionally rhythmic (PEDs) and (4) 2 left
hemispheric brief seizures.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous left hemispheric focal slowing, frequent left anterior
epileptiform discharges and 2 left hemispheric seizures indicate focal structural epileptogenic






