
History:	28 year old man who presents after a drug overdose.  Seizure-like activity was
Medications:	Propofol that was stopped several minutes into the recording
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Asleep only, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Early in the recording the background is attenuated, unreactive,
discontinuous with slow polymorphic delta activity captured.  Once propofol is turned off, faster
frequencies appear and the background becomes continuous and reactive.  At best, the background
consists of polymorphic and rhythmic delta activity with underriding theta activity, most
pronounced anteriorly.  There is paucity of faster frequencies over the right.  Occasional, triphasic-
like waveforms are captured early and in the middle of the recording.  They are sharply contoured
with frontal predominance.  No normal sleep architecture is captured.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric
Other, occasional, triphasics vs sharp waves
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL comatose 24-minute EEG due to (1) moderate to severe diffuse slowing that
improves in the course of the recording; (2) continuous focal right hemispheric focal slowing and
(3) occasional triphasic waveforms vs frontally predominant epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse slowing
is indicative of moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region but could also
represent post-ictal focal slowing.  Presence of triphasics waveforms vs epileptiform discharges is of
unclear clinical significance since it is not a constant finding and may represent a transient pattern
secondary to propofol discontinuation.





