History:	62 year old woman who is comatose.
Medications:	Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 11/4/2014 to 11/5/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic low
amplitude theta and delta activity.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
There are recurrent electrographic seizures occurring several times per hour.  Some seizures last >5
minutes.  There is no clear clinical correlate.  Seizures start with subtle low amplitude ~9 Hz
activity observed over the right frontal and occipital leads.  This activity gradually slows down to
theta frequency range.  It then evolves into rhythmic diffuse slow delta activity  with emergent
bilateral sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves, most prominent over the right (maximal scalp
negativity over T4 and P4 leads).  Seizures eventually stop after adjustments are made in the
medical therapy with no seizures seen by ~ 12 AM.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Seizure, intermittent, right fronto-occipital onset and then diffuse spread.  Stop by 12 AM.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24-hour continuous video EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse slowing
and intermittent seizures with right fronto occipital onset. Diffuse slowing indicative of moderate to-
severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this patient is at least
partially related to the medication effect.  There is an epileptogenic structural lesion over the right.
When compared to the recording from 11/3-11/4/2014, seizures stop in the 2nd half of the
recording.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





