History:	43 year old man with a history of TBI and seizures.
Medications:	Dilantin, Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of moderate amplitude 8 hz theta activity that attenuates
with eye opening.  There is an appropriate AP gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes
anteriorly.  Diffuse excess polymorphic theta activity is present.  Patient is asleep throughout the
majority of the recording.  Symmetrical sleep spindles, vertex waves and K-complexes are present.
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity are present over the left frontotemporal region.
Occasional independent left anterior and rare left parietal sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves
are captured.  Additionally, frequent independent low amplitude spikes with aftergoing slow waves
are captured over the right midtemporal region.  They have broad field and have appearance of
BETS (benign epileptiform transients of sleep) or SSS (small sharp spikes).
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with poor cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at
multiple flash rates.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, occasional, left anterior
Spikes, frequent, right temporal, mid, with broad field and appearance of BETS (benign
Sleep, stage 2
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Sharp waves, rare, left parietal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and mostly asleep 22 minute EEG due to (1) Mild diffuse slowing; (2)
continuous moderate left frontotemporal focal slowing and (3) independent epileptiform
discharges that emanate from left anterior, left parietal and right midtemporal region.  Diffuse
slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  Multifocal
epileptiform discharges indicate several independent epileptogenic areas - please correlate
clinically/ with imaging





