History:	55 year old male with right hemisphere brain injury, and recurrent electrographic
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is obvious hemispheric asymmetry characterized by continuous focal delta over the right
hemisphere and theta/delta seen over the left hemisphere. A fragmented posterior dominant
rhythm is seen on the left from 7-8Hz.  The amplitude asymmetries suggest a right breach artifact.
Overall, the record has improved significantly over the past 24 hours with less frequent PLEDs.  No
normal sleep architecture was present.
There are rhythmic to semi-rhythmic right occipitotemporal PLEDs varying from 0.5-1 Hz maximal
at T4-T6. There are no overt clinical manifestations associated with the PLEDs.  By 5PM, the
PLEDs have diminished to sharply contoured delta and there is the appearance of theta activity.
Overnight, the PLEDs are infrequent and of low amplitude.
Clinically the patient is sedated, but has been removed from ventilatory support.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, bilateral generalized
Focal slowing, polymorphic, right hemispheric
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), occasional, right posterior quadrant
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG due to focal right hemisphere slowing, diffuse
bihemispheric slowing, a right breach artifact, right sided PLEDs. Over the past 24 hours, the record
has improved and no further seizures are seen.. These findings suggest a structural lesion over the
right hemisphere with a highly epileptogenic, irritative focus.  By late evening the PLEDs had
diminished and were replaced with sharply contoured delta activity..  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

