CLINICAL HISTORY:  33 year old female with history of severe mental retardation, cerebral palsy, and seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin, Ativan.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long term monitoring  EEG was performed at bedside  using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness.  No activating procedures were performed.  Continuous spike and wave detection software was performed for seizure detection, as well as patient alarm for detection of events.  Also the nurses reported events.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no posterior dominant rhythm nor frontal central beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture and no activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
As seen before, focal sharp waves in multiple places, including F4, T3, P3, and T5, as well as frontal polyspikes seen throughout the recording.
Generalized slow waves 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-70 mV were seen throughout the recording.
SEIZURES:  Throughout the recording there is about 15 seizures seen throughout the recording where the patient suddenly lifts her arms tonically and her face also opens in a tonic fashion.  This episode lasts 15-20 seconds and then stops.  There appears to be a sudden attenuation diffusely throughout the recording.  There seems to be a paroxysm of fast that cannot be localized to one specific region, followed by tonic muscle artifact throughout the recording and diffuse slowing at the end of the seizure.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Multiple tonic seizures of generalized onset.
Multifocal spikes.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of generalized epilepsy with multiple seizures of unclear onset, as well as multiple focus of possible seizures of brain irritability and seizure onset.  In addition, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology and may be due to the patient's overall cognitive deficits or disease. These findings were reported to the primary team.



