CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 20-year-old female with history of seizures described as generalized tonic-clonic with loss of consciousness for a few minutes.  Last seizures occurred 2 years ago.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Lamictal.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation, were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm was 9-10 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  A stage 1 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact, as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves.  Stage II sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles.  During wakefulness, there were 2 bursts of generalized spike and wave, and polyspike discharges seen occurrent with a frequency of 3.5 Hz, which were frontally predominant.  These occurred in bursts lasting for 1-2 seconds.  There was no clinical seizure correlated during these bursts.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response without any photoparoxysmal response.  Hyperventilation was performed and results in symmetric slowing of the background activity.  Heart rate was 60 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing wakefulness through stage II sleep due to generalized spike and wave and polyspike discharges seen during wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are consistent with idiopathic generalized epilepsy in the setting of a history of seizures.  Clinical correlation is recommended.



