History:	77 YO MALE W/ SZ AND BRAIN METS. PT WENT TO RADIATION DAY BEFORE,
CAME HOME AND BECAME UNRESPONSIVE. PMHX: AUG 22ND S/P
CEREBELLUM TO REMOVE TWO LESIONS BY
Medications:	KEPPRA, DECADRON, INSULIN, INFLUENZA
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
The waking background is characterized by a 25-40 uV, 7-8 Hz posterior dominant rhythm  During
maximal wakefulness, symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, predominately over bilateral
frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 4-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely,
followed by symmetric vertex waves and sleep spindles.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal at P3/T5 during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. At times this is sharply contoured.  Intermittent
polymorphic delta activity is present in the right temporal regions during wakefulness, increasing
during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 66.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, posterior quadrant
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of continuous focal slowing in the
left hemisphere maximal in the posterior quadrant.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural
lesion in this region, consistent with known metastatic lesions. In addition there is  intermittent focal
slowing in the right anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.  There is also diffuse background slowing and slow
alpha rhythm, indicative of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically


