CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 67-year-old woman with epilepsy, seizures, hydrocephalus, stroke with left hemiparesis, seen in emergency room last week for feeling as if she is about to have a seizure.
MEDICATIONS:  Coumadin, Bumex, Tegretol.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation was not possible but photic stimulation was performed.  This is a technically satisfactory routine EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In apparent wakefulness, the background EEG is abnormal.  Focal slowing is noted from the right posterior quadrant.  This is superimposed upon a diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm of 7-7.5 Hz on the left, and arrhythmic delta activity in the right posterior quadrant with focal epileptiform activity with sharp waves in the right posterior quadrant typically with a T6 phase reversal.  Features of drowsiness include an increase in background slowing as well as an increase in arrhythmic delta activity which can be bilateral or more prominent in the right hemisphere.  In sleep, some of the sharp waves transitioned to a right occipital maximum.
Photic stimulation did not significantly activate the record.
Heart rate 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Nearly continuous focal slowing from the right posterior quadrant.
Right posterior sharp waves, T6-O2.
Background slowing from the left.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In comparison to a study 4 years ago, there is more significant background slowing.  The breach rhythm noted in the right at C4 with right centrotemporal sharp waves was not as prominent today and focal features as well as breach activity were more prominent in the right posterior quadrant.
Clinical correlation may be appropriate, given the background slowing and the number of years since the patient's most recent EEG.  Of note, that EEG was recorded after the patient has been admitted for continuous seizures.



