History:	44 YO AA, AIDS IN HAART & BACTRIM, C/O HA & PHOTOPHOBIA X2 WKS. (
WIFE SAID HE WAS SMOKING CRACK RECENTLY. )
PMHX: HIV - AIDS, HEMORRHOIDS
Medications:	PROPOFOL 80, OXYCODONE, MIDAZ, LORAZEPAM, HEPARIN, TRUVADA
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, obtunded
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  At onset the background activity was characterized by
low voltage diffuse delta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies. There were frequent burst of an intermixed diffuse frontal predominant 11-13 Hz
activity.  After propofol was stopped a diffuse frontal predominant delta activity was present which
appeared to become rhythmic with stimulation.  At the end of the record the background improves
even more to diffuse theta activity and a posterior dominant rhythm reaches at best 6Hz.  No
No focal slowing is present.  There is a single electrographic seizure seen minutes after the propofol
is stopped. Its onset appears to be at P4/O2 with a rhythmic low voltage sharply contoured beta
discharge that increases in amplitude settles more occipitally then spreads more  anteriorly. It last
about 1minute and 18 seconds.  There was no clinical correlate associated to this EEG activity
documented on video.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  Hr was 66
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, one, right posterior quadrant
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  a subclinical electrographic seizure arising from the right
posterior quadrant region.  This is indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region. In addition,
there is  diffuse background slowing and slowing of the alpha rhythm.  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Findings were

