CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 67-year-old male with previous history of subarachnoid hemorrhage, traumatic brain injury, epilepsy, bipolar disease, heart failure, thyroid disease, admitted with tachycardia, possible seizures, and unresponsiveness.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan 6 mg, Keppra, and Spiriva.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG, without the T1-T2 electrodes.  In the initial sections of the record, the patient was somnolent, in a hard collar.  Over the course of this nearly 12-hour recording, the patient was increasingly awake, alert, and responsive.  The patient was noted to be somewhat responsive in the initial sections of the record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background begins with a pattern rich in beta.  There is prominent frontal beta.  Occasional, shifting and slowing was noted from either hemisphere, a bit more prominently from the left in comparison to the right.  Particularly in the early sections of the record, discrete low voltage frontal sharp waves or spikes were noted, more typically at FT1 and F3.
By 10:37, the patient is more arousable and in the overnight recording intermittent arousals were noted.  By the early morning hours of the 24th, the patient was responsive to stimuli and interactive.  At the conclusion of the record at 8:24 a.m., the patient was awake and interactive with primarily a theta frequency pattern.
A posterior dominant rhythm of approximately 7 hertz was noted at the close of the record with shifting asymmetries.
Heart rate 120 to 140 bpm.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This nearly 12-hour EEG monitoring session was remarkable for,
Initial pattern with generous beta.
Shifting slowing.
Subtle left frontal sharp waves or spikes.
Continued somewhat slow pattern noted at the conclusion of the record, although the patient was awake and interactive.
Persistent tachycardia.
CLINICAL COORDINATION: No seizures were recorded.  Based on the clinical improvement of the patient, the EEG monitoring session was discontinued on the morning of the 24th.



