A 23-year-old woman wi1h epilepsy, admitted after 5 tonic-clonic seizures with
postictal confusion. The patient remains confused, has difficulty getting out of bed
MEDICATIONS: Lamictal, Lacosemide, others.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed on the 26th. This EEG captures
wakefulness end drowsiness. The patient was uncooperative and very emotional during the EEG.
EEG is markedly abnormal and lacks the normal
developmental milestones that one would anticipate in an awake adult Much of the record includes theta
and beta. There are bursts of sharply contoured theta or fast activity noted in the central Lambda was noted In wakefulness.
No clinical correlates were noted with the patient's runs of central theta, vertex sharp waves or bursts of sharply contoured beta and theta.
The sleep section of the record includes stage 2 sleep with vertex waves and spindles but very high amplitude spike and wave and wave complexes. Some of these are generalized; others are more prominent In the right frontal region. As the patient transitions in and out of sleep, prominent theta is noted from the central regions, particularly left central.
The patient became increasingly agitated after 7:00 p.m. wi1h rapid heart rate. She was communicative with the nurses was not considered to be having a seizure and removed her electrodes and departed from the hospital
Baseline heart rate 100 bpm.
IMPRESSION: This is an markedly abnormal EEG due to:
1. Replacement of normal background with a markedly slow pattern.
2. Prominent theta, sharp waves, and bursts of activity from the central regions somewhat more prominent from the left and primarily in wakefulness without clear clinical correlate.
3. Prominent epileptiform activity in stage 2 sleep which is high amplitude, generally, bilateral and generalized.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for prominent epileptiform activity particularly In sleep with an unusual pattern. A multifocal mechanism for epilepsy
could be considered. No clinical seizures were recorded.



