REASON FOR STUDY:  Aortic arch surgery.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is an 80-year-old man with triple bypass in 1999, colon cancer status post surgery in 2012, hypertension, and angina here for aortic arch replacement.
MEDICATIONS:  Induction was done with versed, fentanyl, lidocaine, etomidate, and vecuronium but isoflurane and fentanyl were also used.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed during the surgery using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while anesthetized.  Feedback was given to the surgeon throughout the entire procedure.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz and is reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta.  The patient is easily sedated after some time.  There is no normal sleep architecture seen.  Activating procedures were performed.  There is some mild left midtemporal anterior temporal focal slowing seen intermittently.  As the record continues by 50 minutes into the record intermittent bursts or diffuse attenuation patterns can be seen and as the sedation is increased.  At around 10:20 a.m. the cooling process starts and as the temperature decreases there appears to be a lower amplitude to the discharges and the longer periods of attenuation seen throughout the EEG.  Please note that the attenuation first began on the right hemisphere isometrically and then picked up on the left hemisphere.  This was informed to the primary team and it was thought to be due to the innominate artery use for cooling.  At around 10:50 the EEG appears fairly suppressed more on the right than the left, but it was not until about noon that the EEG appears to be finally completely suppressed.  At around 12:17 the rewarming started again and bursts could be noticed as early as 12:26 p.m.  The bursts appeared to be more on the left than the right and with time they appeared to be more frequent than higher amplitudes and more equally observed over both right and left hemisphere.  The EEG continued to be recorded as the bursts continued to increase and was finally stopped as the EEG became much more continuous at 1:47 p.m.
Heart rate:  Please note that the heart rate did stop during the procedure and returned appropriately as the patient's circulation was restarted.
IMPRESSION:  Uneventful EEG monitoring of aortic arch replacement surgery.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG revealed no unexpected changes during an uneventful aortic arch bypass surgery with suppression seen with cooling and restoration of symmetric EEG activity after rewarming.  No seizures were observed.
__________________________



