History:	43 YR MALE WITH CC OF INCREASE IN SZS. AND FALLS   PMHX: RASMUSSENS
ENCEPHALITIS (SURGERY ON LEFT.  WITH REFRACTORY SZS.
INCREASED  SEIZURE ACTIVITY.
Medications:	PHENOBARBITAL, TOPIRAMATE, VIMPAT,
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is an obvious hemispheric asymmetry. Over the right hemisphere there is preserved
frequency gradients with a responsive 8-9Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  A moderate amount of
beta activity is seen over the right fronto-central region.  Over the left hemisphere there is
continuous focal delta activity, punctuated by frequent left periodic epileptiform discharges (PEDs;
see below).  There is minimal normal cerebral activity over the left.  Some fragmentary Stage II
There is continuous focal delta slowing seen over the left hemisphere disrupting the posterior
dominant rhythm.  There are frequent left posterior centro-temporal PEDs maximal at C3-T5.
There are numerous evolving electrographic seizures emanating from the left posterior
centrotemporal region. These last from 2-40 seconds in duration.  The seizures begin  as sharp, low
voltage fast activity (~16-20Hz) and evolves into focal rhythmic delta activity. Clinically the patient
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, left hemispheric
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), frequent, left hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is a markedly ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG due to left periodic lateralized epileptiform
discharges, focal left hemispheric slowing, and frequent left onset seizures. The record demonstrates
a pattern that suggests severe left hemisphere dysfunction and injury.  The frequent seizures
suggest a pattern akin to epilepsia partialis continua.  These findings were conveyed to the primary



sleep is seen.team.is seen to have repetitive right arm/hand movements.


