DATE OF STUDY:  August 22, 2014, to August 25, 2014.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
MEDICATIONS:  Medications had been discontinued, but were re-initiated on the 23rd.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring, continues using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  On August 23, 2014:  Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  Abundant sleep was noted.  Independent sharp waves were noted in the temporal regions, but were less prominent than other sections of the record.
There are intermittent bursts of hypersynchronous theta activity, which is present bilaterally, but consistently higher amplitude on the left compared to the right and may have sharp waves mixed in.  This is more likely to be seen in drowsiness and in the transition to stage sleep with Vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.
Seizures:  No definitive clinical or electrographic seizures.
Epileptiform discharges:  Subtle, intermittent left to right temporal sharp waves seen primarily in sleep as well as the more prominent hypersynchronous theta on the left, which is at times sharply contoured.
Heart rate 70 bpm.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The background and epileptiform activity described above have been previously identified.  No seizures were obtained.  Recording will continue.
August 23rd to August 24th:  During this section of the record, the patient experienced headache.  Electrode impedances and quality of the record were required some attention.  There were multiple practice push buttons, but none for clinical seizures or electrographic seizures.
Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  There is intermittent theta noted primarily in the left anterior temporal region.  Vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles were noted in sleep.
Seizures:  None:
Pushbutton detection:  There were multiple practice push buttons throughout the day, but none for electrographic seizures.
Interictal epileptiform detections:  Seizures and sharp waves are infrequently noted in this section of the record.  Of note, despite the electrode problems, even using other montages, the subtle left anterior temporal theta and subtle underlying sharp waves can be identified with an average reference and continues to localize to the left anterior temporal region.  This section of the record includes significant slow wave sleep in that transition, occasional temporal sharp waves are noted in the transition in and out of sleep.  The appearance of a sharp wave is confounded by EKG and other artifacts, but there are more clearly defined sharp waves like there are clearly different from the background as well as different from artifacts seen in the background.
EEG NUMBER:  LTM, 14-194-7, August 24, through August 25th,
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring with seizure and spike detection offer   continues.  During this section of the record, the patient was aware of 1 event when she fell asleep or became unresponsive while talking on the phone.  She was not aware of any other of events.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is unchanged with a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, abundant stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS.  Patient tends to drift off to sleep when she is in bed.
Event time 7:37:  The patient is on the phone.  She is not talking much throughout the entire conversation.  Reviewing the video, it is difficult to hear her speak at all.  The patient appears to have drifted off into stage 2 sleep during the phone call.  In addition to features of stage 2 sleep, there are occasional independent right or left temporal sharp waves, but no electrographic seizures can be identified.  The patient awakens briefly at 8:02 while still on the phone.  She does not appear to have said anything, but does moan at 8:03.  She does not seem to have been aware that she had fallen asleep.  The EEG, however, demonstrates a normal awake pattern and then a drowsy pattern and she seems to be drifting back off to sleep.  She intermittently stairs and remains on the phone, but appears extremely drowsy.
Seizure at 3:12:47, the patient was asleep prior to the seizure.  Prior to the seizure, there is an asymmetry.  The left hemisphere seems to be richer in faster frequency, activity and the right hemisphere demonstrates a more attenuated pattern.  The sharp wave is noted from the right temporal region at 13:12:44 and there was more of a beta pattern noted.  The total seizure duration may be considered 48 seconds versus 1 minute 21 seconds depending on how the on or off set is chosen.  The 1st clear electrographic finding is the sharp waves, and then there is a beta buzz in the right hemisphere.  By 3:12:52, rhythmic theta is building up out of the left, but the ictal pattern is most intense on the right and is clearly building up 3:12:59 with rhythmic theta and clear paroxysmal frequency evolution.  This high amplitude discharge seems to demonstrate the characteristics slow paroxysmal evolution with a shot off of the spike activity on the right at 3:13:33, but the left hemisphere demonstrates more ongoing rhythmic delta and the minutes that follow, there is prominent disruption of faster frequency activity in the right hemisphere with the slow delta on the right and more faster frequency on the left.  The patient does not awaken, returns to sleep and is not aware of the seizure.
Heart rate 78 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is the last day of continuous video EEG monitoring.  The overall session was remarkable for,
Two electrographic seizures.  The 1st sleep, on August 18th suggested the left temporal lobe localization and had a little in the way of positive clinical findings.  The 2nd occur out of sleep, and had subtle focal features with late head turning to the right, and oral automatisms.
Interictal epileptiform discharges, right or left temporal, but with variable amplitudes, distributions, and morphology.
Attenuation of faster frequency activity in the right hemisphere noted most prominently around the time of the right temporal lobe seizure.
More high amplitude rhythmic theta and sharply contoured activity from the left anterior temporal region throughout much of the recording.
Clinical correlation:  This monitoring session is diagnostic of a localization-related epilepsy.  The scalp EEG demonstrates more than 1 electrical pattern for this patient's seizures.
__________________________



