History:	50 year old woman with repeated episodes of unresponsiveness.
Medications:	no AEDs; Clozaril
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~19 hours from  11/7/2014 till 11/8/2014. Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess polymorphic theta activity is present.  During drowsiness,
the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and
the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows
further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No clear focal slowing is present.
There is frequent movement artifact when patient is awake.  There is severe electrode artifact until
~ 8 am and again after ~ 9 PM - those EEG portions are not interpretable.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Event, not recorded
Artifact, electrode
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL ~19 hours continuous video EEG due to mild diffuse slowing. This finding is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There is severe
electrode artifact until ~ 8 AM and again after ~ 9 PM - those EEG portions are not interpretable.
These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





