CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 56-year-old man with a history of seizures, currently admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for a differential diagnosis of his events and medication adjustment.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications are Tegretol extended release 600 mg twice a day and zonisamide 100 mg q.h.s.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10/20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The patient was equipped with an event button.  The recording was reviewed by the attending physician.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of lower amplitude 9-10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During sleep, symmetrical sleep spindles, vertex waves, K complexes, slow wave sleep and REM sleep are captured.  There is continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity over the right anterior temporal region.  Additional runs of somewhat monomorphic theta are observed over the bilateral frontal regions, right greater than left.  Occasional sharp waves with after-going slow waves are noted independently above the bilateral anterior temporal regions, right greater than left, with phase reversal over F8/T2 and F7/T1 electrodes respectively.  No seizures or events captured.  There was electrode artifact affecting various EEG leads until approximately 12 p.m. as well as at the end of the recording.
FINDINGS:
Continuous mild to moderate right anterior temporal focal slowing.
Occasional independent anterior temporal sharp waves with after-going slow waves, right greater than left.
No seizures or typical events.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 24-hour continuous audio video EEG monitoring due to continuous mild to moderate right anterior temporal slowing and independent anterior temporal epileptiform discharges, right greater than left.  Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  There is a potential epileptogenic focus emanating from bilateral anterior temporal regions, right greater than left.  No seizures or typical events occurred.



