HISTORY:
43 y.o. male referred for routine EEG for sudden dizzy spells. He describes that whenever he makes a quick movement he feels as though his body is shutting down and not able to do anything; he feels as though he is stuck in slow motion . There are no warning signs and no confusion afterwards .
He says this started after a head trauma from a fall 4 years ago, from a ladder. He was apparently told to have a craniotomy but refused; he subsequently developed seizures lasting 20 min; but has been seizure-free for 2 yrs. PMH: HTN.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide	(PRINZIDE,ZESTORETIC) 20-25 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.
levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, TAKE 1 TABLET BY MOUTH 2 TIMES A DAY
ibuprofen (ADVIL,MOTRIN) 600 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 8 hours as needed for Pain.
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) recording using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes was performed utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory
record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient. Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.
During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.	No focal slowing is present. EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
There are frequent runs of notched 5-Hz monomorphic activity over the left mid-temporal area, sometimes with reflection over the left parasagittal area.
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION / CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This is a most likely normal awake-and-drowsy routine EEG.	There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
The frequent runs of 5-Hz activity over the left mid-temporal area are most consistent with a normal variant, rhythmic midtemporal discharges (RMTD), also known as rhythmic temporal theta bursts of drowsiness.




