CLINICAL HISTORY: A 26-year-old woman with lifelong, refractory epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS: Vimpat, Keppra, Lamictal.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed In the monitoring unit using standard, seizure and spike detection software. The patient did not report a typical clinical seizure during
this section of the record, but did have an episode when she went to the bathroom where her leg gave out.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Awake: In wakefulness, the background EEG is remarkable for a fair amount of background theta. A posterior dominant rhythm of 8.5 Hz was noted . In relaxed wakefulness, there is some occasional bursts of bilateral theta. The waking record is remarkable for intermittent. generalized background slowing.
Sleep in the transition to sleep, there is some underlying arrhythmic delta which begins to appear, left greater than right As the patient drifts off to sleep, intermittent arousals from sleep were noted. In sleep,
focal slowing is more clearly apparent from the left temporal region, sometimes occurring In bursts and sometimes associated with definitive sharp waves and relatively sustained focal slowing The best example of this is at 11:00 p.m. as the patient is transitioning In and out of stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, spindles. and posts. In addition to the epileptiform activity on the left. there are occasional sharp waves noted on the right.
Interictal epileptiform activity:
1. Primarily left anterior temporal spikes, primarily seen in stage 2 sleep with associated focal slowing.
2. Rare or more subtle lower voltage, sharp waves noted from the right.
Event: time 6:27. The patient is off camera. The EEG demonstrates an awake pattern. There is no definitive epileptiform pattern, but there does appear to be a bit more theta noted in the background. The nurses attend stop the patient at 6:31 when the patient is having difficulty walking. The patient is back in bed and is cooperative and appropriate
Heart rate 60 to 90 bpm.
IMPRESSION: This 24 hour section of long-term video EEG monitoring, September 23 to September 24. was remarkable for:
1. No definitive seizures with an electrographic signature.
2. Focal slowing from the left temporal region seen primarily in sleep,
3. Left anterior temporal sharp waves and spikes seen primarily in stage 2 sleep. Frequent In sleep
4. lower voltage, right anterior temporal sharp waves, infrequent
This EEG supports a localization related mechanism for epilepsy. This
patient has additional recording 9/24/2013, which was dictated in a second report. Patient left the hospital “AMA”



