History:	47 YR OLD FEMALE WITH H/O S/P  LT MCA RUPTURED ANEURYSM 1/14.
Medications:	PROPOFOL, NICARDIPINE, VECURONIUM
KEPPRA, VANCOMYCIN
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
For most of the 24 hour recording epoch, no posterior dominant rhythm was present. However at
several times e.g., 8:30PM, 10:47PM, 12:30PM, there is the appearance of a posterior dominant 7-
8Hz rhythm over the right occiput.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage
delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.
There is an obvious amplitude asymmetry between the left and right hemisphere with attenuation
and suppression seen over the left hemisphere.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present but the left hemisphere amplitudes are markedly attenuated compared
to the right.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was some reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, continuous, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral (R>L) diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG because of diffuse background slowing, absent alpha
rhythm, and focal left hemisphere attenuation.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific
indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  The brief epochs of improved background
activity may represent improved perfusion or blood flow. Clinical correlation is suggested.  There
findings were communicated to the primary team.


