History:		74 YR OLD MAN PRESENTS FOR FOLLOW UP EEG WITH CIC OF ONSET OF SHAKING EPISODES OF ARMS LASTING A FEW SECONDS AND OCCURRING 3-4 X A WEEK. ALSO CONCERNING FOR LEG WEAKNESS PMHX SIG FOR SYNCOPE ON 10/24/14. CEA OF LT 2008, CAD S/P CABG 1998 I PCI 2006, TIA.
Medications:	NO AED Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation,  photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by an alpha rhythm  that At best reaches  8.5-9Hz.   Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the recording and increases during drowsiness. Intermittent brief bursts of diffuse, frontally-maximal  polymorphic  1 to 2 Hz, 80-100 uV slow waves are observed during wakefulness.   During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral anterior temporal (left more than right) region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect. Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect. HR was 84
Summary of Findings:	.
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral (L>R) temporal, anterior Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive, mild
FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep 1 hour EEG because of intermittent focal slowing in the bilateral anterior temporal (left more than right) region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific. In addition there is  diffuse background slowing and FIRDA.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.




