REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  This was predominantly drowsiness and stage 1 sleep record with brief periods of wakefulness.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
MEDICATIONS:  Zonisamide, albuterol, Zyrtec.
TECHNICAL PROBLEMS:  The C3 CZ leads appear to have been closely placed because of which there is flattening of EEG in that channel.
HISTORY:  A 27-year-old lady who is mentally challenged, born out of complicated pregnancy, i.e. cesarean section and was born blue.  She was diagnosed with seizure disorder 1 year ago.  Per mother the patient has seizures every day with just eye twitching.  Also has left-sided twitching.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Periods of wakefulness were very brief as this was predominantly a sleep record.  In the brief period that the was awake there is diffuse slowing with a posterior dominant rhythm in the theta range with maximum frequency of 7 Hertz which is symmetric and reactive to eye opening.
Sleep was characterized by diffuse slowing and some waves resembling vertex waves, but no definite vertex morphology was seen.  There were abnormal discharges seen during sleep which will be further described below under the section abnormal discharges.
Hypoventilation did not change the record significantly.
Photic stimulation did not elicit any abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Generalized symmetric frontally predominant spike and wave activity of 2.5 Hertz frequency and 130 to 150 microvolt amplitude were noted mainly during drowsiness and sleep.
There was generalized diffuse slowing in the theta range.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Frontally predominant generalized symmetric 2.5 Hertz spike and wave discharges in sleep.
Symmetric diffuse slowing in the theta range.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with that of a diagnosis of symptomatic generalized epilepsy with a pattern consistent with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.




