TIME:  9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is an 85-year-old woman with a past medical history of left MCA stroke, status post IV/IA TPA in 08/2012, who presents for evaluation of seizures and altered mental status.  She has history of atrial fibrillation and left MCA stroke.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, metoprolol, lisinopril, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed at the bedside in the ICU setting using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring performed.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures patients in a lethargic state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the lethargic state, there was seen diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background with hemispheric asymmetry characterized by greater attenuation and loss of faster frequencies in left frontotemporal region.  There was spontaneous variability and reactivity on stimulating the patient.  No epileptiform activity or seizures were seen during this recording.  Heart rate was 100 to 120 beats per minute and irregular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG capturing patient in a lethargic state due to diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background activity, most pronounced in left hemisphere with loss of fast frequencies.  No seizures or epileptiform activity was seen during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background are suggestive of severe encephalopathy caused by toxic, metabolic, anoxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy or due to the effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  In addition, diffuse attenuation could be seen in bilateral fluid collection in the extra-axial space or the overlying scalp.  Attenuation and loss of faster frequencies in the left hemisphere is consistent with the patient's history of stroke.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  Note, the patient is tachycardic with irregular rhythm.



