History:	69 yo female who presents with focal status epilepticus.
Medications:	Keppra, Dilantin, Ativan IM Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, lethargic


Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient. The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity with frequent periods of background discontinuity. No normal sleep architecture is present.

Continuous semi-rhythmic and rhythmic (quasi-PLEDS and PLEDs) sharp waves and sharp waves with polyspikes are present over the right posterior quadrant with maximal scalp negativity over the 02 electrode with a repetition rate of - 1 Hz. Repetitive electrographic right posterior quadrant seizures are captured.  They last from - 20 seconds to up to 2 min 40 seconds.  No clear clinical correlate is seen on the video. Electrographically, they are characterized by increase in rhythmicity and frequency of sharp waves up to 2-3 Hz and decrease in amplitude of sharp waves.  Seizures are more frequent in the second half of the recording. In the first half of the recording, similar rhythmic runs are observed but they last <1O seconds

(brief ictal rhythmic discharges (BIRDs)). Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.

Summary of Findings:
Other, brief ictal rhythmic discharges (BIRDs), in first half of the recording Other, continuous, right posterior, quasi-PLEDs and PLEDs, up to 1 Hz Other
Seizure, few, right posterior, from - 20 sec to 2 min 40 sec with no clinical correlate Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate

Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL  portable 22 minute EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing, continuous right posterior quadrant semi-rhythmic and rhythmic epileptiform discharges and several focal right posterior quadrant electrographic seizures.  Diffuse slowing indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There is an epileptogenic focus over the right posterior quadrant.
These findings were conveyed to the primary team an  patient was placed on long term EEG monitoring.







