CLINICAL HISTORY:   29 year old male status post severe head trauma and craniectomy seen for continuous EEG monitoring.  Pentobarbital coma to be initiated for sustained increased ICP's.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using 10-20 system of electrode placement with some modifications due to the patient's craniectomy.  Pentobarbital coma started at 10:00 p.m.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The initial sections of the record have previously been described. The EEG was discontinuous, particularly within the left hemisphere, even before the initiation of Pentobarbital coma with a burst suppression pattern.  Around the time of the initiation of the Pentobarbital, there are 2 to 3 second bursts of mixed theta-delta activity with some beta.  After the initiation of the Pentobarbital, the bursts are not substantially changed.  Unfortunately, there is artifact in the EEG, but none that really precludes interpretation of the pattern.  There is more muscle artifact on the right than the left.
At 2:06 a.m., the EEG is markedly suppressed bilaterally with intermittent bursts of fast activity.  There may be one burst of activity every minute to two minutes.
At 4:00 a.m., the EEG is suppressed rather than burst suppression.
LONG TERM MONITORING 01/06/12/TO 01/09/2012 - #12-03
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:    This EEG is markedly suppressed with a low burst rate, sometimes as infrequent as 1 per minute or 2 to 3 per minute.   The EEG remains suppressed until approximately 12:30 on the afternoon of 01/06/2012, at which point the burst suppression pattern reappears.  At that point, there are brief bursts of cerebral activity lasting about 2 seconds, followed by periods of suppression which were typically about 15 seconds in duration. No seizures are noted. There is occasional artifact observed including approximately 0.75 Hz to 1.5 Hz movement artifact.
January 7 through January 8:  By 6:00 p.m., the EEG is less suppressed, and by 10:00 p.m., although the electrodes are a little bit more fragile, the EEG is quite suppressed but there is a burst suppression pattern with periods of suppression that are only about 5 seconds in duration.  Bursts of activity remain quite brief.
January 8 through January 9:  This section of the record demonstrates a lower voltage, not entirely suppressed pattern.  There are slower bursts of mixed theta-delta, rather than more prominent paroxysmal activity.  As the recording continues, the EEG is increasingly continuous, sharply contoured. Electrode integrity is sometimes fragile.
Most of the EEG demonstrates more sharply contoured mixed faster activity and theta activity with some left frontal sharp waves but no seizures.
HR:    120 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG monitoring demonstrated:
A markedly suppressed cerebral pattern bilaterally.
Transition to a suppressed pattern from a burst suppression pattern and then, by the afternoon of 01/06/2012, the burst suppression pattern recurs.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The pharmacotherapy can explain the suppression or the burst suppression, but the baseline pattern was compatible with a severe CNS process as can be anticipate with a combination of severe CNS insult and sedative hypnotic medications.



