History:	65 yo woman presenting from OSH for cardiac arrest. Down for 30+ minutes, found
by family. Pt previously discharged from OSH for ?PNA vs CHF. PMH: Asthma, DM,
CHF, HepC, HTN, CKD, Schizophrenia, Bipolar, Methadone abuse
Medications:	Vecuronium 10, Fentanyl 25, Depakote 1800
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, lethargic, comatose
Description:
Background is disorganized and dynamic with bursts of paroxysmal synchronous and asynchronous
high amplitude theta and delta. There is no posterior dominant rhythm present.  At times the
background is discontinuous.  Diffuse triphasic waves are present throughout the record,
predominately seen in the bilateral frontocentral regions.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Intermittent rhythmic sharply contoured focal slowing is seen in the left frontal region and at times
appears to be bifrontal.  Occasional right frontotemporal sharp waves are present with phase
reversal at F8-T4.  Occasional discharges with phase reversal at F3 are also present.  Involuntary
rhythmic oral movements are seen associated with the paroxysmal high amplitude bursts, which
stop during brief periods of attenuation during which the patient takes several deep breaths.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  Verbal and tactile stimulation of the
patient did not activate the record.  Muscle artifact is eliminated after vecuronium is administered.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Triphasic waves, frequent diffuse, predominately frontocentral
Discontinuous background, intermittent
Sharp waves, frequent, right frontotemporal
Disorganization, continuous
Interpretation:
This is a very ABNORMAL EEG because of frequent frontocentral triphasic waves and severe diffuse
background slowing and disorganization. These findings are indicative of a severe diffuse
encephalopathy, which is suggestive of a metabolic origin. Anoxic injury can produce a similar
pattern.  There are also frequent right frontotemporal sharp waves and bifrontal rhythmic sharply
contoured focal slowing. This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific.  The paroxysmal bursts with associated involuntary movements is not
clearly an ictal pattern and may represent myoclonic discharges in the setting of cardiac arrest and
anoxic brain injury.  Longterm EEG monitoring will follow on October 8.  
HR: 120




