CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 45-year-old, right-handed male with a history of epilepsy since age 13.  Per his sister it is a posttraumatic seizure.  The patient initially had drop attacks for several seconds with multiple head injuries. The patient also had a history of near drowning.
MEDICATIONS:  Divalproex, carbamazepine, simvastatin.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed at lab using the standard 10/20 electrode placement system and additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Photic stimulation and hyperventilation were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Due to cognitive dysfunction the patient was not able to cooperate with hyperventilations.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDS:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 7-7.5 Hz in frequency, seen in the occipital region, which mildly attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontal central beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  During wakefulness and sleep, there were frequent bursts of generalized sharp and slow-wave discharges seen with a frequency of 2-2.5 Hz, which were frontally predominant.  They occurred at times in burst lasting from 1-6 seconds.  The bursts were longer during sleep.  There was no clinical seizures correlate during these bursts.  The patient also had disorganized background activity with excess theta and at times, with a frequency of 5-7 Hz and at times delta activity most pronounced during sleep.  Drowsiness and sleep were characterized by slowing of background activity, and absence of eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves.  Photic stimulation was performed and results in no driving response.  Hyperventilation was performed results in diffuse slowing in the background activity.  Heart rate was 70 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to diffuse slowing and at times disorganized background activity to frequent diffuse sharp and slow wave discharges, 2.5 Hz infrequency, with no evolution at times in bursts most pronounced during sleep.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are consistent with idiopathic generalized epilepsy likely Lennox, gastaut syndrome in the setting of a history of seizures. Diffuse slowing indicate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to the etiology.



