History:	58 year old man with a history of lymphoma and increase in seizure frequency.
Medications:	KEPPRA, ATIVAN, DEPAKOTE
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~13 hours from ~7 pm on 12/16/2013 to ~8 am on
12/17/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.   The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The posterior dominant at best consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude 6-7 Hz activity  There
is no clear AP gradient.  Additional, polymorphic diffuse theta and delta activity is noted.  During
sleep, symmetrical sleep spindles are noted.
Multiple electrographic seizures are captured. They last on average ~ 100-120 seconds and tend
to occur in clusters, with seizures occurring every 5-10 minutes during the seizure cluster.  Seizures
start with low amplitude sharply contoured fast activity in Fp1 electrode that gradually increases in
frequency and decreases in amplitude and evolves into rhythmic 8-9 Hz sharp activity.  Seizure
remains primarily within Fp1 electrode with some  minimal spread vs reflection into Fp2 electrode.
Video review does not provide adequate assessment of the patient during the events.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, left frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 13-hour video EEG due to moderate diffuse background slowing
and frequent left focal frontopolar seizures that often occur in clusters. Diffuse slowing is indicative
of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There is epileptogenic
focus in the left frontopolar region.  The results were conveyed to the primary team.


