RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Inpatient
EEG TYPE: Routine, awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1226
HISTORY:
Male is a 114 y .o . male referred for routine EEG after presenting with gunshot wound to neck, back, chest, and right arm. Nurse observed patient to have a seizure 8/24/15, with foaming at mouth. No history of seizures.
MEDICATIONS:
Dilaudid, Keppra, Lovenox, Zofran, Fentanyl
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) recording using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes was performed utilizing a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.	Technician notes that patient was given Dilaudid just prior to recording due to agitation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
There are very brief, < 15-second periods of wakefulness.	During these times, the waking background is characterized by the presence of a well-organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient
of frequency and amplitude is present.
During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles and K-complexes present during Stage II sleep.
Slow wave sleep is not captured. No generalized slowing is present. No focal slowing is present.
PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
1. There are occasional runs of frontally-predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity, at 2 Hz, for very brief (<10 second) periods
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present. ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Not performed Photic Stimulation: Not performed
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 102 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake-and-asleep routine EEG due to:
1. Occasional runs of frontally-predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity, at 2 Hz, for very brief (<10 second) periods
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
Frontally predominant generalized rhythmic delta activity (GRDA, also known as FIRDA) is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic-metabolic states, but may also be seen with deep structural lesions or increased intracranial pressure. Clinical correlation is advised.

