CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 49-year-old woman with history of hypertension, bilateral breast cancer, irregular heart beat, presents status post fall in the bathroom, found down with urinary incontinence, felt an aura of nausea, flashing lights and weird smell, also felt dizzy, diaphoretic, and has heart flutter.
MEDICATIONS:  Topamax, metoprolol, Diovan, valsartan, Lexapro, amlodipine, Zofran.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed from 10/20 to 10/21/2012 for a duration of 16.4 hours using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  Continuous spike detection was used as well as seizure detection software and patient's notes, patient's pushbuttons, nurse notes and reports were used to review the EEG.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  The EKG electrode had some difficulty throughout the recording, at times could not be read, as it had what appears to be an impedance artifact.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and sleep, stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 and deeper stages of sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal slow waves seen intermittently at F7/T3 and also at F8/T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-50 microvolts.
EVENT:  The patient did have a pushbutton at 5:56 p.m. where she was complaining of feeling a headache and dizzy just like she would before her passing out events.  She pressed the button as the nurse came into the room and asked her some questions.  She was slow to respond and took some 10-20 seconds to follow commands and respond verbally and her speech was slow.  During this episode, the EEG remained normal and no abnormalities were seen.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to independent bilateral anterior temporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of mild focal cerebral dysfunction seen independently in the bilateral anterior temporal regions, both of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  The episode captured above had no electrographic correlate.  However, the patient was not clearly unresponsive.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.



