:
History:	76 year old woman undergoing left ICA stenting. Patient has a history of right sided
weakness.
Medications:	Anesthesia medications
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
During maximal wakefulness, the posterior dominant rhythm consists of moderate amplitude
polymorphic 8.5-9 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is AP gradient but it
is weak.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the recording.
Normal sleep architecture consisting of symmetrical vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the left temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Similar activity is observed over the right temporal
region, but to a lesser degree.  Several moderate-to-high amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing
slow waves are noted over the left anterior temporal region.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over
F7 electrode (example at 1 hour 20 minutes into the recording).
A single stent is deployed at ~1 hour 30 minutes into the recording.  No change in the background
is noted.  A single EKG lead demonstrates intermittent premature QRS complexes.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, few, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal, mild-to-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right temporal, mild-to-moderate
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Interpretation:
This is an uneventful 1 hour 45 minutes continuous EEG performed during left ICA stenting under
the IR guidance.  Deployment of the stent did not produce change in the background. This is an
abnormal EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; (2) bitemporal (left>>right) mild-to-moderate focal
slowing and (3) several left anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse slowing is indicative
of mild  diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this case could be
related to the medication effect.  Focal bitemporal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction,
more pronounced over the left, possibly structural in etiology.  There is a potential epileptogenic
focus over the left anterior temporal region.  A single EKG lead demonstrates intermittent is captured by the complexes




