REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 61-year-old man status post fall with a right subdural and craniotomy with episodic twitching of the body.

MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Ativan, Dilantin, metoprolol.

INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed from 08/08/2013 to 08/09/2013 for a total of 12 hours using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software as well as the patient's notes and nurses' reports in addition to review of the entire EEG was utilized to create this report.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture and activating procedures were not performed.  Overall, the background consists of diffuse attenuation and low voltage throughout the entire brain intermixed with bursts of very sharply contoured mixed theta/delta discharges with intermixed sharp waves that emanate from the right hemisphere, at times more focused at T4 with focal slowing in that region.  The discharges at times evolve to have a clinical correlate consistent with seizures.  I will discuss them further in "seizures."

Abnormal discharges:
1. Generalized attenuation.
2. Focal slowing and sharp waves over the right hemisphere, maximal at T4, occurring almost continuously.

Seizures:  Intermittent bursts of theta/delta mixed discharges with sharp waves are mainly focused at T4, but also at F8 and C4, at times appear to evolve in frequency and last for 20 to 30 seconds.  Sometimes they have an EMG artifact correlate over the left hemisphere, which is consistent with the known clinical twitching that was reported.  The video does not demonstrate any more clear clinical findings and the clinical twitching is not clearly seen on the video.  These seizures continue to occur and remain occurring frequently for the first 10 hours.  During the last 2 hours, the bursts appear to have a more attenuated and benign morphology with less sharp waves and more delta frequency discharges; however, at times sharp waves are still seen between and infrequently some muscle EMG artifact could be seen, rarely, on the left hemisphere.

Heart rate 96.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to status epilepticus with seizures arising from the right hemisphere, in addition to right hemisphere focal slowing and faster frequencies consistent with a breach, as well as generalized slowing.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals status epilepticus arising from the right hemisphere, maximally in the right parietal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal structural cerebral dysfunction, irritability over the right hemisphere, maximal in the right parietal region, which is consistent with the known hemorrhage and craniotomy.  Lastly, there is evidence of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regard to etiology but may be due, at least in part, to medication effect.  These findings were reported to the primary team as they occurred.






