History:	46 year old man with right sided ICH and change in mental status. Medications:	no AEDs
Sedation:


EEG Type: Technique:


Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, obtunded




Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with paucity of faster frequencies over the right.  The background over the left consists of polymorphic 7-8 Hz theta activity posteriorly with superimposed continuous delta activity, most pronounced anteriorly.  The background over the right consists of a mixture of theta«delta activity admixed with brief bursts of polyspikes at variable amplitudes, occurring primarily over the midtemporal- central-parietal region (example at -2:48pm).   Frequency of these bursts increases and they gradually coalesce into rhythmic and organized, albeit poorly visible, runs (seizures).  Rhythmic delta with superimposed rhythmic spikes is seen over the right posterior quadrant as seizure progresses.  These events last on average 25-60 seconds and have no clear clinical correlate.  These events recur every 30-60 seconds.  No normal sleep architecture is present.

Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate of
-120 bpm.

Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, continuous, right temporoparietal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Disorganization,  moderate

Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 22-minutes EEG due to (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing and disorganization;
(2) continuous focal right hemispheric slowing and (3) focal right temporoparietal occipital status epilepticus. These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.   Focal right hemispheric slowing and focal continuous status epilepticus indicate focal structural cerebral dysfunction (right intracerebral hemorrhage in this case).  These findings were conveyed to the primary team at the time of the recording and patient was placed on continuous EEG
monitoring.


