CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 22-year-old male with monthly seizures characterized by numbness of the tongue, which goes on to have tonic-clonic activity.  Onset age 14, occur monthly
MEDICATIONS:  Topiramate and Trileptal.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
May 18-19,  2015:
Background: This section of the record captures wakefulness through stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS.  The background includes intermittent theta, which may be more prominent in the right or be present bilaterally, but the overall theta is quite subtle.
Epileptiform detections:  None.
Seizures:  None.
May 19-20, 2015:  During this section of the record, medications were reduced.  The patient identified no seizures and none were picked up by the seizure and spike detection.
Background:  The background demonstrates a well-formed 9.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  The sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  The patient seems to be relatively drowsy during the early morning sections of the record.  Arousal late in the evening was noted.
Epileptiform Detections:  None.
Seizures:  None.
Heart rate:  66 bpm.
May 20-21, 2015:  During this section of the record, significant REM sleep was identified, particularly in the early morning sections of the record.  The patient had demonstrated relatively disrupted sleep.  Of note, the patient did report that he daydreams.  He did not think that he had had any seizures and he reports that his daydreaming is no different with medication reduction.
Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  There is little in the way of excess theta.  When the patient is concentrating, watching television, or looking at his phone, it is more of a beta pattern.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS.  REM sleep was identified.
Epileptiform detections:  None.
Electrographic seizures:  None.
Heart rate:  66-80 bpm.

05/21/2015 to 05/22/2015
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Background wakefulness includes a 9 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage frontal central beta.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles and POSTS.
Seizures:  None.
Epileptiform Detections:  None.
Heart rate: 54 BPM.
IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:: Normal continuous video EEG monitoring.
No epileptiform features were noted.  EEG monitoring will continue.
05/22/2015 to 05/23/2015
Background
In wakefulness, there is symmetric reactive alpha rhythm.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  The patient is noted to be sleeping frequently during the day and up a great deal at night.
Epileptiform Detections:  There is one left temporal sharp waves.
Epileptiform seizures:  None.
May 23-24:  Wakefulness includes symmetric reactive posterior dominant rhythm.
Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  See below
Seizures:  There were 2 seizures identified
2:15:03 PM   This is a 5-minute and 9-second seizure.  The patient was in bed, he was looking to the left.  Awake, HR =60
The seizure began quite subtly and onset is not clearly localizing.  Out of the awake background, there is the abrupt appearance of theta, which is not initially clearly localizing.  In addition, this theta seems to wax and wane.  He shifts a little at 2:15:33.  There are some nonspecific movements and as he does so, rhythmic theta noted from the right hemisphere with a lower voltage pattern from the left and some alpha frequency activity noted on the left.  The EEG is briefly obscured by muscle and movement artifact and then rhythmic 4-5 Hz activity out of the right hemisphere is noted with maximum in the right frontocentral region.  By 2:16, there is an increase in fast activity bilaterally as well as muscle activity, but at 2:16:23, there is clear bilateral frontocentral fast activity, more intense on the right compared to the left.  Underlying this, there is a sharp wave at F4-F8.
With an average reference, this activity is very close to the midline and is essentially maximum at the midline.  The epileptiform activity continues to build up on the right in the left hemisphere at times, normal alpha frequency activity is seen, but in the right hemisphere, the right hemisphere consistently demonstrates pathological patterns including repetitive sharp activity or fast activity.  The alpha frequency activity or frontal sharp waves continue to build up and at 2:17 involve the right posterior temporal region.  The EEG goes on to secondarily generalized pattern
Seizure semiology:
Patient tells the nurses about the seizure like symptoms at 2:18, at which time responsiveness is impaired.  He can speak, but is confused.  Left arm twitching is reported by the bedside observer/  The EEG transitions to a tonic-clonic seizure at 2:19:06 with tonic activity as the patient turns to the right and then later tonic-clonic activity at 2:19:50.  The postictal pattern includes a markedly slow pattern with transient right-sided delta and then bilateral, prominent delta.
Behavioral manifestations of this seizure include an individual who is initially awake.  He calls for the nurse and tells her that he feels it in his tongue and says repeatedly "I just don't feel right, I just don't feel right," but he is intermittently responsive to her in the initial minutes of the seizure.  As the seizure starts, there is some head turning to the left, but this is the direction of the television and when he is communicating to the nurse during the seizure, he looks at her puts his hands to his head and is repeating to her about his symptoms at 2:18:29.  He is unable to respond at 2:19:03 when the seizure transitions to a tonic-clonic seizure.  The patient has some degree of preserved awareness more than 3 minutes into the seizure.
Seizure:  4:32 p.m.  This is a 1-minute and 41-second seizure.  At this time, the patient has restarted his seizure medications and received Ativan for the tonic-clonic seizure.  He is lying on his left side in bed and is drowsy, HR = 60.  The EEG changes include rhythmic frontal theta, maximum at the midline.  There is a great deal of movement and muscle artifact at the onset.
This EEG transitions to more of a diffuse/ bilateral/ fast/ alpha frequency pattern by 4:32:24.  The mother is at the bedside and identifies the seizure at 4:32:32, although on the video, it is difficult to identify what features she is noting (left arm twitching was noted in the first seizure prior to the tonic-clonic activity).  This EEG transitions earlier into a tonic-clonic seizure at 4:32:46.  The characteristic features of localization followed by tonic and then clonic activity were noted.  Prior to this transition, there is fast activity and frontal epileptiform activity, somewhat more prominent in the right hemisphere.  Following this, prominent postictal slowing was noted.
Heart rate:  50-90 bpm
May 23-24, 2015:
Background:  Much of the sleep recording on the 23rd includes stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  By 10 a.m., intermittent arousals were noted with 10 Hz alpha rhythm, but the patient is primarily drowsy or asleep.
Epileptiform Detections:  None.
Additional seizures:  None.
Heart rate:  60-90
May 24-25, 2015:
Introduction:  During this day, no electrographic seizures or clinical seizures were identified.
Background:  In wakefulness, at times, the alpha rhythm reaches 10 Hz and awake background is well organized.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS. There is a small amount of theta in wakefulness
Epileptiform Detections:  None.
Seizures: None.
COMMENT:  In the early sections on the 24th, there were problems with the electrodes, but at 9 a.m. and again at 11 a.m., with the patient awake, there is a change in the background with excess theta and beta.  The patient is awake, moving about, using the phone and interactive. This pattern is reminiscent of part of the ictal pattern.  Of note, at that time, the patient had a low-grade fever and a somewhat increased heart rate. The beta and theta activity described above did not evolve as one might see in an epileptiform pattern.
IMPRESSION:  This 7-day continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Two electrographic seizures.  The 1st had a long prodrome with an unusual ictal pattern, but likely localization to the right hemisphere.
A paucity of epileptiform abnormalities: rare temporal sharp waves noted, not even a handful in an entire week.
Excess theta noted in the background at the beginning of this study and then again later in the study when the patient's medications had been resumed at high doses.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is diagnostic of a localization related epilepsy; although, these seizures demonstrates challenging localization by scalp EEG.




