History:	39 YR OLD MALE . PCP WONDERS IF SOME MEDS COULD BE WEANED AND
CHANGED SINCE PT.HAS BEEN SEIZURE FREE FOR 5 YRS,AND HAS
OSTEOPOROSIS.PT IS ALSO MR. SEIZURE STARTED AT 2 MONTHS OF
AGE.AFTER MENINGITIS.HE ALSO IS A TWIN WHICH SISTER IS NORMAL.
Medications:	DEPAKOTE,TEGRETOL,
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, photic
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right frontal region. There are intermixed
sharp waves located at F4. At times the slowing appears slightly monomorphic but it has no clear
evolution.  Frequent brief frontally-maximal 2 Hz spike-and-wave discharges and polyspike-and-
slow-wave discharges occur during the recording.  Some of this have an associated sudden left
sided jerk seen on the video.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 60
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes, frequent generalized
Sharp waves, frequent, right frontal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  focal slowing and sharp waves in the right frontal region.
This is indicative of a irritable structural lesion in that region. There are additional  frontal
predominant spikes and wave discharged with an associated clinical muscle twitch. This can be
representative of a generalized discharge with myoclonus or alternatively this could be frontal focal
discharge with rapid secondary spread.  Lastly there is diffuse background slowing and absence of
the alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse
cerebral dysfunction.  Overall this findings are consistent with symptomatic generalized epilepsy.





