CLINICAL HISTORY:   43  year old woman with epilepsy since age 32 with 4 seizures per month.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Topamax.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient reported her last seizure more than a week prior to admission, but was somewhat distressed upon admission and difficult to console.  Continuous seizure and spike detection software was utilized.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  April 23 to April 24, 2012:   Wakefulness demonstrates a well organized background.  There is some problems overnight with FP1 electrode.  On rare occasions there is some subtle left temporal theta.  This is seen in wakefulness and on rare occasions in sleep.  Using an average reference there is some discreet, rare left temporal sharp waves at F7 in sleep.  The theta described on the left is quite infrequent and the vast majority of the record demonstrates normal wakefulness through stage II sleep.
April 24 through April 25, 2012:  During this section of the record the patient experienced no clinical seizures.  This section of the record is characterized by a symmetric reactive 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  Drowsiness includes rhythmic background slowing with vertex waves, K-complexes, and spindles.  The patient is asleep in the afternoon and awake a fair amount during the day.  Unfortunately there is a fair amount of electrode artifact in many sections of the record.  There is a paucity of focal or
epileptiform activity and in fact in comparison to previous EEGs for this patient, the overall EEG is well organized.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG was utilized with seizure and spike detection.  Unfortunately, the patient’s prosthetic hair was a serious impediment interfering with the electrodes.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The patient had a seizure at 12:34 on April 26, which was completely unlocalized by the EEG, in part due to artifact and then subsequently by the patient’s removal of the EEG electrodes during the seizures.
This seizure and its postictal changes were at least 4 minutes in duration.  The patient was eating.  She stopped eating, she was looking away from the camera.  She had automatisms with her left foot and then she looked away from the camera.  For many minutes, either during or after the seizure, she had automatisms of the hands and face with hand washing movements.  She was able to push the tray back from the bed.  She seemed like she was about to fall of the bed, but actually was able to get herself back on the bed. Random wakefulness and sleep in the hours following, including in sleep, there were right temporal sharp waves noted.  Vertex waves and spindles were noted in stage II sleep.
In the additional recording on the morning of April 27, there were a handful of sharp waves on the left, but more significant sharp waves on the right. The technologist continued to work with the patient, including wrapping the scalp, but with limited success in terms of maintaining the quality of the EEG recording.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was utilized using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with seizure and spike detection.  The patient had no seizures.  None were identified by the computerized seizure and spike detector.  She has braids and it is a challenge to keep her electrodes in place.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  Stage II sleep includes vertex phase, K-complexes, and spindles. The automated seizure detectors identify only artifacts.   Particularly in the early morning hours, there is significant electrode problems.
HR:    60 bpm
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  No clinical seizures were reported.  The patient has extensive braids.  Her head was wrapped in an attempt to try and preserve the electrode integrity.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There are sections where the electrode integrity is pretty good.  Unfortunately, there are also other sections where it is not, particularly at C3.
Although there are no clinical seizures noted, there is a prominent burst of rhythmic delta from the right temporal region with a sharp wave at 12:29.  This did not appear to have triggered the seizure and spike detector.  The patient is lying on her side.  She moves about afterward.  Although this is highly suspicious for a subclinical seizure, seizure onset and offset is difficult to tell and there are other electrode problems.  Sleep is characterized by vertex waves and spindles.  The patient spent most of the day in bed. Unfortunately, every time the patient moves around, it triggers the seizure and spike detector, which makes it very difficult to rely on the seizure and spike detector for epileptiform seizures.
HR:    60 to 80 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This continuous video EEG monitoring recording was remarkable for:
Interictal epileptiform activity which included sharp waves, primarily seen on the right.
One clear complex partial seizure which was not adequately localized by scalp and part due to technical difficulties.
Question subclinical seizure at midday on the 27th, again with some technical issues due to electrode issues.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is diagnostic of a focal mechanism for epilepsy based on the interictal spikes and the seizure semiology on the video, but the data obtained is not adequate for a presurgical localization.



