CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 48-year-old male with refractory epilepsy, typical seizures with focal motor movements in the right as well as some tonic-clonic seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Eslicarbazepine (Aptiom), Keppra, Depakote, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG and seizure and spike detection.  Clinical seizures were noted in this section of the record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  In wakefulness, there is a symmetric reactive 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  The overall waking background is low voltage.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTs.
Electrographic Seizures:  The 1st event for this individual occurs at 5:28:00.  The patient is eating.  He is noted to have an increase in heart rate from 90 beats per minute to 114 beats per minute with some irregularity.  He is eating and his right hand is underneath the tray, but the elbow jerks and the lid to the tray falls.  He pushes the button and reports to the nurse that he had a seizure.  The EEG is obscured by muscle and chew artifact, and no epileptiform activity was identified.
In the 1.5 hours that follow, the patient was noted to have somewhat sustained tachycardia with heart rate approximately 120 bpm, slightly irregular heart rate, and occasional PVCs, occasional isolated approximately 4 Hz spike and wave discharges were noted, some of which have a bifid component in the right posterior quadrant.
A cluster of 50 seizures was identified beginning at 8:05.  Most seizures were 4-8 seconds in duration.  Seizures were characterized by a burst of 3-4 Hz spike and wave activity, which was somewhat irregular.  Using various montages, the activity is maximum at the midline, __________ for a few discharges maximum in the right or left central region was noted.
Behavioral characteristics of these seizures included no clinical signs in the 1st second or the first 2-3 discharges.  The 2nd finding was jerking of the right arm.  If the patient was speaking, he would speak in the 1st second, but speech arrest was noted during the 3rd through 5th second of the discharge.  He seemed to be aware of all events and did not appear to lose his train of thought during the seizures.  Clinical staff was present through the vast majority of these seizures.
Tonic-Clonic Seizure:  Time, 8:29:30, duration 1 minute 1.15 seconds.  This was a tonic-clonic seizure.  It began with a burst of spike and wave activity, maximum at the midline with 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity.  By 8:29:04, polyspike or fast activity was noted with rhythmic theta and then the EEG was obscured by tonic motor activity.
Behaviorally:  After 1 second, the patient had right arm trembling.  At 8:29:03 as the fast activity increases, the right arm comes up and then the left arm comes up a second later.  Both arms were elevated in a __________ like posture.  At  8:29:08, the patient's mouth opens and then clonic activity is noted at 8:29:15.  Tonic-clonic activity is noted at the end and the postictal EEG is diffusely slow with prominent delta at the midline.  The physician and nurse are at the bedside.  Ativan was given in the postictal section of the record.  Prolonged postictal delta was noted with the appearance of beta by 8:42.  By midnight, the patient seems to have transitioned to stage 2 sleep with beta spindles.  The remaining sections of the overnight recording demonstrates, little in the way of interictal epileptiform activity.
Interictal epileptiform activity for this section of the record:  As noted previously, 3.5-4 Hz spike and wave activity often occurring in stage 2 sleep on the context of a vertex wave.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal 24-hour EEG monitoring due to:
Cluster of seizures, which all began with right arm jerking, although there is a generalized EEG signature.  Speech arrest was a later finding in the brief seizures and the patient did appear to be aware during the seizures.
Tonic-clonic seizure with same initial features.
Clinical Correlation:  This section of the EEG was diagnostic with generalized epilepsy and consideration for a secondary generalized mechanism is appropriate.



