CLINICAL HISTORY:  64 year old right handed male with a history of seizures, here for evaluation of seizure localization and frequency.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, Tegretol.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software was used during the EEG.  In addition, patient alarms as well as nurses' notes were also used during the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a mildly diffuse slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches a frequency of 8 Hz, which appears to be reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen in the left mid-temporal region at T3 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 50 microvolts seen occasionally.
In addition, focal sharp waves are seen infrequently at T3, mainly in sleep.
EVENTS:  At 1:24 in the morning, the patient had an event.  In the video it appears that the patient suddenly becomes agitated and wants to go home.  He stands up abruptly from the bed and starts attacking the nurses and appears to want to stand up and leave.  He stands up out of the bed and disappears from the video.  Minutes later he comes back and he is restrained.  He remains agitated and moves around the bed during the rest of the recording.  During the time the patient becomes agitated and minutes prior becoming agitated, the EEG remains normal with no epileptiform discharges or seizures seen.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Left temporal slowing and sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy, with seizures likely arising from the left temporal region.  In addition, the episode captured agitation but did not reveal any epileptic discharges and is likely a nonepileptic event.  No seizures were captured during this day 1 of EEG monitoring.



