HISTORY:  Patient is a 59-year-old man with history of fevers and hypotension and tachycardia, found to be in comatose state, diagnosed as sepsis.  Patient was admitted with septic shock and altered mental status in comatose state.  Past medical history is significant for gastric bypass.  This EEG captured patient in a comatose state.
MEDICATIONS:  Patient has sepsis on antibiotics.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in ICU using a standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captured patient in the comatose state.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  In the comatose state, there was seen diffuse attenuation of background with significant amount of muscle artifact.  The background activity was characterized by low voltage delta activity into 2.5 Hz at times, theta activity seen with a frequency of 4 Hz.  There was seen no spontaneous variability and poor reactivity on stimulating the patient.  No seizures or epileptiform activity were seen during this recording.  Heart rate was 100-220 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is a limited study due to diffuse muscle artifact.  The patient was captured in a comatose state.  Diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background activity with no seizure or epileptiform activity characterized this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing and attenuation of background were suggestive of severe anoxic encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to severe metabolic or infectious encephalopathy or due to effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  In addition, diffuse attenuation could be seen in bilateral fluid collection in the extra-axial space or the overlapping skull.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, the continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



