CLINICAL HISTORY:   69 year old woman with epilepsy, admitted with small bowel obstruction, made n.p.o. with recurrent seizures starting on the 20th.
MEDICATIONS:  Midazolam, Ativan, phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient is having clinical and subclinical seizures in the initial section of the record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins, recurrent seizures typically lasting about a minute long are identified.  These are maximum at T1, FP1, and F3.  They demonstrate characteristic frequency of elution but not all are seceded with the patient's clinical event, which is clenching of both arms upward.  There is clear evolution and there is a clear pattern of a discontinuous pattern when the seizures terminate.  The background from the right hemisphere is a mixture of beta and delta.
The patient has a low blood pressure and requires a central line and pressure support prior to the infusion of medications.  At 8:30 and at 10:00 p.m. she received 300 mg of phenobarbital, with additional 100 mg at 7:01 a.m.  This produces bradycardia.  Heart rate 48 bpm at 12:46 a.m.  The EEG does start to break up with this dose, but then a burst of sharp waves is noted at 12:47, and then a seizure 2 minutes later.
Midazolam is initiated and titrated upward.  Epileptiform activity is seen at 5:56 a.m.  Versed reaches its maximum dose at 7:40:59.  By 7:43, the epileptiform activity is not as prominent.  There are bursts of sharp waves or fast activity from the left frontal or frontocentral region.  There are no additional clinical seizures noted.  Although there are bursts, some of which are quite prominent, none of them have the completely characteristic frequency of elution noted in the initial sections of the record.  The patient gradually receives additional doses of medications.
The patient is maintained on Midazolam with small doses of phenobarbital.  Although there are electrographic seizures noted between 9:00 and 10:00 a.m., by 19:00 hours the epileptiform activity is waning without the same discrete pattern of clearly defined seizures but more of a prominent pattern of bursts of epileptiform activity.
HR:    48 bpm
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.
No clinical seizures were recorded.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This section of the record is remarkable for intermittent bursts of sharply contoured activity in the left frontal and frontotemporal/centrotemporal region.  This typically occurs with a burst of delta, then fast activity and then underlying spike.  Most bursts are less than 10 seconds in duration.  There are sections of the record with bursts lasting up to 20 seconds.  There is also intermittent discontinuity.  At 7:00 p.m. is a section of the record with a bit more in the way of epileptiform activity.
At 11:22 there is an increase in muscle noted in the background.  Rather movements of the patient's upper extremities are noted.  There are certainly sections where she seems to be coughing on the vent.  This section of the record does include prominent epileptiform activity, but no definitive seizures, particularly on the morning of November 22.
By 2:11 in the afternoon, the EEG is better and the patient is actually moving a bit.  At that point the electrodes are discontinued briefly.
HR:    78 bpm
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  Continuous seizure and spike detection is utilized.  There is no clinical information provided in the record and there is no medication up date.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG demonstrates a continuous pattern with generous beta particularly in the frontal regions.  There are sections with a discontinuous pattern, particularly at 7:00 p.m.  There are bursts of sharply contoured activity in the left frontal region or sharp waves, and some of these occur even out of the burst suppression pattern.  It appears that pharmacotherapy might have been changed at 7:00 p.m. on the night of November 22, because there is intermittently a burst suppression pattern and an increase in epileptiform activity.
By 2:17 a.m. the background EEG is more continuous and it is more of a theta pattern.  There are also sections of the record, including at 2:00 a.m. where the camera is moved to the door and the EEG electrodes on the left are compromised.
This section ends at 8:03 a.m. and at this point the patient is not seizing, but there is a prominent focus with left frontal sharp waves.
HR:   N/A
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient is intubated and poorly responsive.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG demonstrates a slow pattern.  There is a prominent, left frontal spike noted.  In comparison to previous sections of the record, there is significantly less in the way of bursts or buildup of the spike.  The patient is intubated and little to no motor activity is noted.  Tactile stimulation of the patient produces an increase in muscle and it does seem to produce an alerting response and perhaps even a decrease in epileptiform activity, but afterwards at 11:13 there is an increase in epileptiform activity.
HR:    72 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Epileptiform activity is decreasing at the end of the LTM.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:   Diagnostic of a severely refractory epilepsy.



