History:	52 year old woman who presents with cerebritis and recurrent seizures.
Medications:	LOVENOX, INSULIN, ACYCLOVIR
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-30uV, 11-12Hz activity diffusely.  Excessive symmetric
5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  There is no clinical or
electrographic sleep seen.
No focal slowing is present.  No inter-ictal epileptiform discharges are present.  Between 2:46PM
and 6:08PM there are several clinical seizures observed and detected by bedside video EEG.
These consist clinically of motor arrest, tachycardia, and eye deviation to the right.  These are
accompanied by a buildup of rhythmic, sharply contoured theta activity over the left fronto-
temporal region. The theta evolves in 3Hz delta activity and then stops spontaneously.  Each of
these seizures lasts 1.5-2 minutes and then there is return to background baseline activity.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Beta, excessive, bilateral diffuse
Seizure, intermittent, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG due to diffuse beta activity and at least 6 left fronto-
temporal seizures. Diffuse beta activity may reflect a medication side effect. In the absence of a
return to intact mental status, recurrent seizures may represent status epilepticus.  These findings
were conveyed to the primary team.



