History:	46 year old woman with a history of reported seizures.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~ 18 hours from 03/12/2015 till 03/13/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The background consists of low amplitude 10-11 Hz alpha activity posteriorly that attenuates with
eye opening.  Fast alpha variant is seen most commonly posteriorly.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz
activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is captured.
Sleep is fragmented.  Normal sleep architecture consisting of POSTS, vertex waves, symmetrical
sleep spindles and REM sleep is observed.
Nearly continuous polymorphic theta activity is present in the right posterior quadrant.  Additional,
low amplitude fast activity is observed in the right posterior quadrant.  Several events are captured.
None have an associated abnormal ictal correlate.  Event #1 occurs around 4:26 pm. Patient
pushes the event button.  She is on her left side under the covers.  She brings her hands towards
her face.  Electrographically, diffuse  ~4 Hz rhythmic EMG artifact is captured.  It is not clear from
the video what generates that artifact.  She does not respond to the nurse when addressed.  The
nurse uncovers her and turns her on her back.  Patient's right arm  is tonically flexed.  Her left arm is
flexed as well but no tonic contraction is noted.  Patient exhales loudly.  She follows no
commands.  EEG demonstrates her awake baseline.  Low amplitude right arm shaking is noted ~1
She coughs and drools.  She turns back on her left side.  She continues not to respond to questions.
Patient speaks ~ 3 minutes after the episode onset.  Event #2 occurs at ~ 11:40 PM and is similar semiologically to the event #1.  It too has no abnormal ictal correlate.  After ~ 10 PM, there is
continuous O1 lead artifact.
Summary of Findings:
Event, two, no ictal correlate
Beta, excessive
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, mild, right posterior
Breach artifact, right posterior

Interpretation:minute into the event.
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video ~18-hour EEG due to mild focal right posterior quadrant
slowing. This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  Breach artifact is
secondary to the skull defect.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect,
such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  Two events of right arm shaking, stiffening and
unresponsiveness have no abnormal ictal EEG correlate.





