ROOM NUMBER:  Neurosurgical ICU __________.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 41-year-old male with large right temporal hemorrhage and intermittent agitation.
MEDICATIONS:
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed on beginning on February 10th and concluding on February 12th.  This is a technically challenging record with disruption of the recording and a total of 18 hours of the EEG was provided.  The recording began at 4:36 on the 10th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background EEG demonstrates intermittently an awake pattern with an 11 Hz alpha rhythm identified on the left and typically pretty well organized pattern on the left with some intermittent slowing.  The right hemisphere demonstrates a continuous focal slowing.  Sleep was identified with vertex waves and spindles.
This EEG was recorded in three separate sections with technical problems and interruptions.  The first section was on February 10th.  Despite the technical problems, at least 7 well-defined electrographic seizures were noted.  All occur out of sleep of 30 to 60 seconds duration.  For some of these discharges, there is a double-phase __________ component to them.  When reviewed with a referential montage, it appears that there is right temporal maximum, but with a dipolar orient towards CZ, the vertex.  As the recording continues, when the patient is awake, there tends to be a fair amount of muscle artifact and it is a little harder to identify epileptiform pathology at that point.
The EEG was paused at 8:05:49 and resumed at 11:12 a.m. on the 11th.  As the recording opens, the patient remains somnolent with head turning to the right, but when awake, a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm is identified on the left and the right is somewhat slow.  There are a handful of seizures noted in the first few hours of recording on the 11th including a 33-second discharge at 1:46 p.m. without clinical correlate, again out of drowsiness.  Similar discharges noted lasting 49 seconds at 4:14 a.m. again out of sleep and then a less well-defined discharge at 4:34 a.m.  Vimpat was added to the patient's medications.  At 5:21, another brief discharge was noted, and again at 5:36, 5:49,6:02.  At 6:13, the patient is __________ and there is a great deal of artifact.  An awake seizure was noted at 6:55 or an electrographic discharge without clear clinical correlate.  The patient seems to be drowsy and is using the right arm.  In this point, although there are some problems with the electrodes, the EEG seems to be quiet and then in sleep again, from 1:28 a.m. until 5:23, there are bursts of rhythmic, repetitive theta frequency activity from the right temporal region, typically of 30 seconds duration, all out of sleep, all without clinical correlate.  A third piece of the EEG includes 6 hours of the EEG recording.  This section of the record captures wakefulness and drowsiness.  Intermittent focal slowing and occasional periodic sharp waves were noted.  As the patient is becoming increasingly alert, he starts tapping on the EEG electrodes.  No definitive seizures were noted in the last 6 hours of the EEG recording.
Heart rate 120 bpm.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Electrographic seizures noted, primarily in the early sections of the record, and during a specific section of sleep recording in the early morning hours of the 12, with maximum in the right temporal region with somewhat unusual field.
Transition from the initial pattern of clinical seizures with eye blinking to subclinical seizures, seen almost exclusively in sleep.
Background slowing, most prominently from the right.
The seizures localized to the patient's known structural abnormality.  Given the transition to a pattern of seizures exclusively in sleep, ongoing vigilance is suggested and a followup EEG tomorrow may be of value.





