History:	24 year old man with a history of seizures.
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  The
background over the left consists of 10.5-11 Hz moderate amplitude well formed and modulated
alpha activity, weak AP gradient and continuous anterior polymorphic theta and delta activity.  The
background over the right consists of polymorphic unstable 9-10 Hz alpha posteriorly, no AP
gradient, theta and delta activity and somewhat rhythmic/ monomorphic sharply contoured 4 Hz
prominent moderate amplitude delta activity.  This delta activity does not clearly evolve.  During
drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.  Poorly formed
Frequent moderate -to-high amplitude broad irregular frontally predominant generalized spikes
with aftergoing slow waves are captured.  They tend to be higher in amplitude over right.  Their
frequency increases during sleep.  Additionally, during sleep, spike and wave discharge
occasionally appear in 1-3 seconds bursts at a repletion rate of 2-3 Hz.  Independent, right anterior -
frontocentral moderate amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are seen (Fp2, F4, C4
maximally).  They too increase in frequency during sleep.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric, especially anteriorly
Sharp waves, frequent, right anterior, (Fp2, F4, C4 maximally)
Spike-and-wave complexes, frequent generalized, 2-3 Hz, increase during sleep
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal awake and briefly asleep 23-minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; (2)
continuous left anterior moderate focal slowing; (3) continuous right hemispheric focal slowing that
is most pronounced anteriorly; (4) independent right anterior-frontocentral epileptiform discharges
and (5) generalized, up to 2-3 Hz, epileptiform discharges that are higher in the amplitude over the
right.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal cerebral dysfunction, in this case
bifrontal (right >>>left) and right hemispheric dysfunction, that is likely structural in etiology.  There
is an epileptogenic focus over the right anterior quadrant.  Generalized epileptiform discharges are
suggestive of a diagnosis of primary generalized epilepsy but given clearly focal bilateral anterior
slowing, secondary bisynchrony cannot be excluded.
sleep spindles are seen over the left.





