History:	54 year old woman with a history of epilepsy, now presents with multiple seizures.
EEG from the day prior showed events concerning for subclinical focal seizures.
Medications:	Depakote, keppra, phenobarbital, Vimpat
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic
Description:
The awake background consists of polymorphic low-to-moderate 8-9 Hz activity with poor AP
gradient and excess polymorphic sharply contoured theta and delta activity.  No clear sleep
architecture is present but periods of quiescence are evident.
Nearly continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the bilateral temporal regions,
left>>right.  Frequent independent sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured over the
anterior temporal regions.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T1 and T2 leads.  Additional,
occasional frontopolar sharp waves are captured (Fp1 and Fp2 maximal).  Approximately 40 second
rhythmic mildly evolving run of activity is noted over the left anterior temporal region (2:39:40
PM).  It starts with ~ 3 Hz rhythmic delta, maximal over the F7/T3 leads, that gradually increases in
amplitude and decreases to ~ 2.5 Hz.  There is no clinical correlate and patient is not tested during
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Sharp waves multifocal, independent anterior temporal and synchronous frontopolar
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, moderate, bilateral (L>R) temporal, anterior
Other, suspected 40 sec focal L temp seizure
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 1 hour portable EEG due to (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing; (2) nearly
continuous moderate bitemporal, left>right, focal slowing; (3) multifocal epileptiform discharges
(independent bilateral anterior temporal and bisynchronous frontopolar regions) and (4) a single 40
second event concerning for a left anterior temporal seizure.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild
to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There is bilateral focal
epileptogenic structural cerebral abnormality in bilateral temporal regions.  Additional,
epileptogenic focus is present over the frontopolar regions.  These findings were conveyed to the
primary team. the event.




