History:	77 year old woman with a history of left PCOM aneurysmal coil in 12/2014,
subsequently severely disabled, was observed to have right facial twitching last
night, requiring Ativan and Dilantin load. Patient remains altered.
Medications:	Ativan, Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Description:
There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms and attenuated background
over the left.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta
activity admixed with frequent periods of discontinuity.  The background over the right consists of a
mixture of moderate amplitude theta, delta and alpha activity with alpha activity especially
pronounced anteriorly(especially over the frontocentral region).  This alpha activity has sleep
spindle-like appearance and often occurs in runs up to 10 seconds long (example, 9:50 AM).
Intermittently, this activity is preceded by polymorphic frontocentral delta activity.  Periods of
discontinuity, albeit less frequent than those found over the left, are noted over the right.  Periods
of quiescence are clearly noted with periods of discontinuity becoming more frequent and synchronous.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
Discontinuous background, intermittent, bilateral (L>R)
Other, brief right frontocentral runs of uncertain clinical significance
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy portable 22 minute EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing
that is more pronounced over the left, left hemispheric voltage attenuation and intermittent brief
right frontocentral runs that are not clearly ictal. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to moderate
diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal and attenuation
over the left is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  This could also be post-ictal
phenomenon (such as a form of Todd's-like phenomenon).  Left hemispheric attenuation could also
be secondary to a fluid collection between the brain and the skull, such as empyema, hematoma
et etc.  Please correlate clinically.  When compared to the EEG from 12/2014, there is increase in
diffuse background  slowing that is especially pronounced over the left.  Given the above findings,
patient may benefit from continuous EEG monitoring to better ascertain the etiology of right
frontocentral runs and focal left hemispheric slowing.  These findings were conveyed to the primary
team.







