CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 67-year-old woman found unconscious with urine and feces with a glucose of 1200 with myoclonus that has since subsided.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, insulin, Zosyn.
INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temple single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.  Overall the background is attenuated and slow at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-30 microvolts.  This is intermixed with short-lasting occipital beta discharges that at the beginning last for about 10-15 seconds and as the record progresses, they have become shorter in duration, lasting only 3-6 seconds.  In addition, there is intermittent bilateral frontal sharp waves seen at times simultaneously and at times independently.  In the last hour, the EEG has become more attenuated and has intermittent suppression seen. No longer the patient can be seen twitching during this recording in the video.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Bilateral anterior frontal sharp waves, at times some on the left, at times some on the right, and at times simultaneously.
Rhythmic data discharge in the occipital region that at the beginning of the recording appears to evolve, but later it stops evolving and becomes much shorter and with a definite start and stop.  This was more consistent with electrographic seizures, but the later discharges appear to be irritated brain in the occipital region, mainly at __________
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-30 microvolts which over the last hour of the recording have become lower in amplitude and more with intermittent suppression.
SEIZURES:  Please note that the occipital electrographic seizures have subsided and become short-lasting electrical discharges in the occipital region at the end of the recording.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to bilateral anterior frontal sharp waves, occipital electrographic seizures as well as generalized flowing and diffuse attenuation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This EEG reveals evidence of cortical irritability in the bifrontal regions with addition of focus of irritability in the occipital region with a high likelihood of seizures possibly arising from this region.  In addition, there is evidence of marked to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction which is likely due to the hyperglycemia and/or __________ effect.  No seizures are seen at the end of the recording.



