History:	19 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O SZ ONSET AT AGE 2, SZ FREE
UNTIL AGE 10 THEN BEGAN TO HAVE SZ DURING SLEEP EVERY NIGHT X 5
YRS AFTER BEING DC'D FROM TRILEPTAL. PT REPORTS TONGUE BITING,
BLADDER INCONT AND NO RECALL OF SZ EVENTS.NOW ADMIT WITH MULTI
Medications:	Depakote, Tegretol
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 12/14/2013 to 12/15/2013.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Multiple events occurred from sleep.
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  As drowsiness progresses, symmetric vertex waves appear followed quickly by
moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes.
Frequent focal sharp waves are present in the right anterior temporal region, with phase reversal
and amplitude maximum at F8/T2. Independent occasional focal sharp waves are present in the
left temporal region, with phase reversal and  amplitude maximum at F7/T1. While asleep there
were multiple frequent bilateral frontal high amplitude delta discharges that increase in amplitude
and then decrease in frequency to a theta discharge which are best seen in the prefrontal  leads.
These may last up to a minute. Clinically the patient may open her eyes and either hand may
assume a dystonic posture or both may become stiff.  Sometimes she wipes her nose or face with
either hand.  These episodes are all consistent with focal seizures. At times there are rhythmic
bifrontal rhythmic beta discharges that do not always appear to evolve and have no clinical correlate
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR is 84  On 11/15/2013 at around
10:49 the EEG suddenly reveals a diffuse high amplitude monomorphic rhythmic delta that last for
about 4 minutes. This occurred while the patient was in the bathroom and off the camera. The RN
reports that the patient suddenly became pale then slumped on the side and became
unresponsive. Once the patient was placed on the floor she regained consciousness.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
these are likely electrographic frontal seizures.	Sharp waves, frequent, bilateral (R>L) temporal, anterior	SZ
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of multiple frequent seizures from sleep which are not clearly
localized by EEG. However, the clinical behavior and overall EEG findings are all suggestive of a
frontal onset. There are also frequent epileptiform discharges in the bilateral (right more than left)
anterior temporal region. All these findings are consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related
epilepsy with possible multiple epileptogenic foci.   In addition there is diffuse background slowing
and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate
diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Lastly the single episode of continuous diffuse monomorphic rhythmic slowing  described above is most consistent with syncope based on the EEG findings.


