History:	56 year old woman who presents with focal status epilepticus.  Patient has a history
of stroke, focal seizures and HIV.
Medications:	Depakote, Vimpat and Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 1/17/2915 till 1/18/2015.  Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right consists of 7 Hz PDR posteriorly but poor AP gradient with delta activity
anteriorly and excess polymorphic theta.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of
polymorphic theta and delta activity, predominantly delta activity anteriorly and continuous
anterior temporal periodic epileptiform discharges that occur with a regular repetition rate of ~1-1.5
Hz.  Many of the discharges are accompanied by low amplitude fast activity (PEDs-plus).  Maximal
scalp negativity occurs over Fp1 lead and is reflected over to the Fp2 lead.  Sleep spindles are
captured and epochs of REM sleep are captured.
No electrographic seizures are captured.  There is a push button event at ~ 7 PM for an episode of
increasing agitation/ restlessness.  There is no clear ictal correlate with that event.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, moderate, left hemispheric, especially anteriorly
No electrographic seizures
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), continuous, left anterior, at ~1 Hz
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 24 hours EEG due to (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing;
(2) continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the anterior region;
and (3) continuous left anterior rhythmic epileptiform discharges (PEDs and PEDs-plus).  Diffuse
slowing is indicative of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There is epileptogenic focal structural lesion over the left anterior quadrant.  No
electrographic seizures are present.






