DATE OF STUDY:  07/29/2013 to 07/30/2013 for a total of 20 hours.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 63-year-old man with a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease, CABG, and epilepsy, as well as an old left PCA stroke that presents with aphasia and right-sided weakness, as well as right-sided gaze deviation with tonic clonic movements of the left upper extremity.  Ativan was given.  EEG to rule out subclinical status epilepticus.
CLINICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Almost continuous muscle artifact during wakefulness and agitation causing multiple electrical artifact.
MEDICATIONS:  Trileptal, Coreg, atorvastatin, heparin.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed. Continuous spike wave detection, as well as seizure detection software along with the patient's and nurse's note were used to review the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that is best seen over the right hemisphere and recess about 5-6 Hz, which appears to be reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontal central beta seen.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and sleep but no typical sleep architecture is seen.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves are seen frequently about every 5-10 seconds at F7/T3 and times they have a more frontal component towards T1 and F3.
Generalized slowing at 5-7 Hz seen continuously throughout the recording and at times even slower frequencies can be seen throughout the recording.
HEART RATE:  72 BPM  Please note, that during the first 9 hours the EKG electrode was lost, however, it recorded during the rest of the recording.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left anterior temporal and some frontal sharp waves that are frequent, in addition to focal slowing in that region and generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the left anterior temporal or frontotemporal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left frontotemporal region, which may be related to the previous stroke.  Lastly, there is evidence of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures were seen.



