History:	78 year old woman status post SAH.
Medications:	none listed
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 13 hours from 10/15/2014 to 10/16/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower
waveforms and lower voltages over the left.  Overall there is increase in underriding faster
frequencies as the recording progresses.  Early in the recording, the background over the right
consists of mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  By the end of the recording, theta
activity becomes more prominent over the right.  The background over the left, consists of
attenuated slow polymorphic delta activity.  Some theta activity is seen over the left during the
second half of the recording.  Prominent triphasic waveforms are seen during periods of stimulation, right>left.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe early in the recording, moderate by  the end
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, severe early on, moderate-to-severe by
Triphasic waves, bilateral (R>L)
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 13-hour EEG due to diffuse slowing that is more
pronounced over the left. Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically nonspecific, but at least partially related to the medication effect since
degree of slowing lessens as the recording progresses.  Continuous focal slowing and attenuation
over the left indicates focal structural lesion in this region as well as a possible fluid collection
between brain and a skull (such as subdural hematoma).  Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG
finding that can be seen in hepatic encephalopathy, uremia and anoxia.  Asymmetry of triphasics
waves is related to the asymmetry of the background.  No electrographic seizures are present.






