History:	27 Y/O FEMALE R HANDED. ADMITTED FOR DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS
PRESURGICAL EVAL.TYPE1 SUDDEN STIFFENING OF BI LAT LEGS WITH LOC
EVERY NIGHT. TYPE 2 SUDDENLY FEELS DIZZY AND TIGHTNESS IN NECK THEN
LOC,STIFFENING OF BI LAT ARMS AND LEGS SHAKING 20 MINUTES.
Medications:	XANAX, TRILEPTAL, ZONISAMIDE, CELEXA
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central
theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  While in stage
1 sleep and seconds prior to 5Hz photic stimulation the patient suddenly appears to move her legs
violently while she keeps her eyes closed. This lasted for 12 seconds.  She is only tested verbally
and she does not appear to respond. The EEG during the event only reveals a diffuse muscle
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates focal
slowing described above  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not
produce any effect. See event .  HR was 90
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive diffuse, Excessive theta in wakefulness
Other, Episode of sudden legs movement from sleep
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of a single episode of leg shaking arising
from sleep with no clear EEG correlate. The clinical significance of the event is unclear, however
the sleep onset is suggestive of an epileptic etiology. In addition there is intermittent focal slowing
in the bilateral anterior temporal regions.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically non-specific. Lastly there is mild  diffuse background slowing.  This finding is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
artifact.





