History:	41 YR OLD MALE WITH PRIOR EEG PRESENTS ON 3/14/14 WITH H/O RT ARM,
LEG, SHOULDER JERKING 5-10 MIN X 4 EPISODES .HAS FULL RECALL OF
EVENTS, ALSO REPORTS 1-2 EPISODES ON 3/13/14 ALONG WITH DIFFICULTY
GETTING WORDS OUT X2 DAYS. PMH SIG FOR LRE X 2 YRS, HTN
Medications:	PHENOBARBITAL, KEPPRA
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
With maximal stimulation, the record is well organized and an 8 Hz posterior dominant rhythm can
be seen. However, without stimulation there is intrahemispheric asymmetry:  Over the right
hemisphere, an 8 Hz posterior dominant rhythm is seen with an anterior-posterior gradient in
amplitude. The left hemisphere is less organized and the background activity is mostly in the theta
and delta range.  During drowsiness, the background attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear
diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to
moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Frequent left posterior quadrant sharp waves were seen, maximally at O1. These were often
associated with mid to posterior left temporal periodic complexes, which at times were nearly
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities. The patient was in stage II sleep during photic
Summary of Findings:
Sharp-and-slow-wave complexes, abundant, left posterior quadrant
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent epileptiform discharges
in the left posterior quadrant.  The nearly continuous and somewhat evolving pattern may be
evidence of late status epilepticus. These findings are consistent with the patient's history of
localization-related epilepsy.  The intermittent focal slowing in the left hemisphere is indicative of
focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.

