History:	54 year old male with history of subdural hematoma and now status epilepticus.
Medications:	Dilantin, Keppra, Phenobarbital, Midazolam
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  On the right there is an admixture of theta and delta activity.  No normal sleep
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal at C3 region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  There are continuous monomorphic left hemispheric
delta sharp waves discharges occurring through the entire record. When compared to the previous
24 hours, there is slowing of the spike frequency.  This is consistent with early resolution of
electrographic seizures (status epilepticus).
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There are no motor movements
associated with the spikes.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, nearly continuous, left hemispheric
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), nearly continuous, left hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of focal left central electrographic
status epilepticus. There is continuous focal slowing in the left central region.  These findings are
indicative of a focal structural lesion.  There is diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm.    These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

