MEDICATION:  Midazolam, Ativan, phenobarbital, and phenytoin.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.  This was a technically generally acceptable recording.
In this 24-hour section, the patient had 3 seizures.  Two were very brief episodes of facial twitching, but the third was a bit longer.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  Interictal background.  The background EEG is markedly slow and disorganized.  In the initial sections of the EEG, the patient is intubated.  The overall pattern is slow with generous beta.  Focal slowing is noted with rhythmic slowing in the left frontal central region and a discrete, low voltage spike is noted in the left hemisphere maximum in the frontal central region.  There is also a small amount of low voltage fast activity noted.  Much of this activity seems to disappear in an average reference, but it does seem to be maximum Fp1-F3 more so than C3 with almost a phase reversal at F3.  It seems to occur first at Fp1 and then transition to F3.  In some sections of the record, left frontal or almost midline frontal spike with higher amplitude at mid and Fp1, but on some occasions, it seems to occur in the anterior electrode first.
There is some waxing and waning of the left frontal delta, but the epileptiform discharge, at least in an average reference, no matter how subtle is always present with a periodicity of approximately 0.9 hertz.
CLINICAL EVENTS:
Approximately 4:49 p.m.  The patient is awake, brief, twitching of the right face was noted.  There is little in the way of an EEG correlate, although there is a bit more muscle artifact noted with this.  The patient is gently rocking at 4:54:17 and he has significant head turning.  The audio may have been turned off during this event.  In addition, although the event was considered to have lasted seconds, without audio, it appears that the patient is actually very subtly twitching for much longer, perhaps as long as 8 minutes.
Seizure time 7:40:28.  The patient is awake with the nurse.  The nurse noticed his facial twitching.  The audio was again turned off, and the patient seems to be somewhat responsive to the nurse during the event.  He seems to have purposeful movements despite the facial twitching.  Ativan 2 mg followed by 190 mg of phenobarbital were given for that seizure.  There is little in the way of a clear ictal change noted with a seizure, which seems to involve only the right face.
Seizure:  There were number of episodes in the morning of the 11th at 650 in the morning, but a clear seizure was noted at 7:24.  The patient seems to be awake, restless, moving the left.  This seizure is approximately 3 minutes in duration and involved facial twitching of the right face and then by 7:24:49 right neck and right upper thorax.  The EEG is obscured by muscle and movement artifact, more so on the right than the left.  There is little in the way of a clear ictal pattern, however, rhythmic artifact was noted with frequency evolution.  Late in that seizure, by 7:25, the patient seems to be jerking a bit from side to side, and by 7:27:24, as the seizure is ending, he is able to use his left side.  He continues to twitch on the right at 7:27:34 despite the ability to use the left.
There is a little in the way of a clear ictal change with this seizure.  This is clearly a seizure characterized by frequency evolution of muscle jerking, but even at the beginning, prior to the very first clinical changes are even with the most subtle clinical changes, there is periodic delta noted from the left hemisphere, but in fact, less in the way of the low voltage spikes previously noted.
Heart rate: 116 bpm.

IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Third day of continuous video EEG monitoring was remarkable for brief, more subtle simple partial seizure, and another seizure, which may have been a simple or complex partial seizure with evidence of the patient been able to utilize the contralateral side during the seizure.  Continuous EEG monitoring and medical management will continue.
__________________________



