CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 54-year-old male with heart failure for pulmonary venous thrombo embolism surgery.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, ketamine, fentanyl, isoflurane, nitrous oxide, and heparin.
INTRODUCTION:  A 7-hour 17 minute EEG was recorded in the OR using standard intraoperative montage with one channel EKG.  On site,  real time remote review was performed by 2 physicians for a total of 7 hours of EEG monitoring.  The recording began with the patient awake in the OR with a very lightly sedated pattern and an alpha rhythm and concluded at 4:42 p.m. after hypothermia had been completed, the patient had been re-warmed and the surgeon had completed the essential aspects of the operation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The recording begins at 9:17 a.m. with an awake pattern.  Anesthetic medications are given 19 minutes later and induction of anesthesia, occurs 21 minute later.  The patient is intubated 31 minutes into the study.  There is a relatively prolonged sedated section of the record with significant Bovie artifact.  Cooling begins 1 hour and 36 minutes into the study with a temperature of 37.6.  1 hour and 50 minutes into the study, the temperature is 37.  The patient received Versed and fentanyl and 1 hour and 55 minutes into the study, the temperature is 35.5.  As the patient is cold, the EEG becomes lower voltage and suppressed.  The EEG is nearly suppressed at 11:50 at 20.5 degrees.  The patient is close to 19 degrees and by 12:05, the EEG is clearly suppressed and remains suppressed.  The EEG remains suppressed throughout the period of cooling.  At 2 p.m. on rare occasions there are very low-voltage isolated blips of delta of unclear origin and significance.  Rewarming begins at approximately 2 p.m. and as the rewarming begins, a low-voltage pattern is noted.  The patient is taken off bypass at 2:49 p.m.  The EEG is not continuous and is very low voltage and suppressed, but again over time with warming the EEG transitions to initially a burst suppression pattern at 3:21 p.m. to a gradually more continuous pattern at 4 p.m.  The patient's body temperature is 35.6 with anesthesia at 4:15 p.m. and as the recording concludes at 4:42 p.m. the EEG is nearly continuous with a low voltage, relatively symmetric pattern and there is rapid heart rate.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  EEG monitoring during this cardio thoracic surgery was remarkable for the ability to achieve electrocerebral silence with hypothermia.





