CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 19-year-old woman with epilepsy since age 2, developmental disability, the patient presented with recurrent seizures, aggression, and tachycardia.  Intermittent episodes of unresponsive with prolonged postictal state.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal, Depakote, Phenobarbital, brief treatment with Versed
INTRODUCTION:  A continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient was intubated and poorly responsive, but clinical seizures were remarkable for tachycardia.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the EEG began, the patient was intubated and sedated.  The patient has a resting heart rate above 120.  Intermittent epileptiform seizures were identified, typically of 30-60 seconds in duration.  The seizures may occur independently from the right or left temporal region.  The seizures had improved, but are identified again at 8:50 p.m.
Depacon was added in the evening hours.  This produced a reduction in the number of epileptiform discharges.
By 11 p.m., the EEG was more consistently a beta pattern.  An additional seizure was noted at 8:38 out of the left temporal region.  This was under 30 seconds in duration and was followed by a seizure out of the right.  In addition, brief, right temporal focal seizure was noted at 12:32 p.m.  Slower, more rhythmic delta seizure was noted out of the left at 12:46 p.m.   At 12:53 p.m., additional right temporal seizures were noted.
At 3 a.m., there is an increase in beta identified in the background. ( Consistent with versed use)
An additional right temporal seizure was noted at 3:35 again lasting less than 1 minute.
Subsequently fewer seizures were noted, until versed D/C’d at 6am
Despite the electrode issues, a left temporal seizure was noted at 7 a.m.  This seizure had a bit more prolonged theta.
Physician in the clinical team was noted at the bedside at 7 a.m.   At that point, the EKG lead was not functional, but the patient did not appear to be reactive to external stimuli, no seizures occurred with the team at the bedside.
There were some problems with electrode integrity and there may have been an additional seizure noted after 7 a.m.
Heart rate 120 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal, continuous video EEG monitoring session due to:
Intermittent electrographic seizures identified from the left or right temporal region.  These tend to occur as clusters with 1-3 seizures occurring in a short period of time.  They may be independent out of the left or right.
Marked background slowing.
A prominent increase in beta noted at 3 a.m.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  While this patient is no longer experiencing continuous seizures compatible with a diagnosis of status epilepticus, the seizures do occur almost every hour with some sensation noted in the overnight recording.  Of note, on the morning of the 16th, there did appear to be an uptake in the number of seizures, but unfortunately, the electrode integrity is becoming a little bit tenuous and electrodes will be re-gelled this morning.



