REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 47-year-old man with changing mental status and concern for bacterial meningitis, renal failure, new onset seizures, alcohol abuse and liver disease, as well as a history of stroke.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.   Patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The records opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  There is an absence of normal organization in the EEG.  Overall, the EEG is consistent with diffuse delta slowing seen throughout the recording.  There appears to be some variability to the slowing and some reactivity to stimulation.  No clear normal sleep architecture is seen.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen intermittently at Cz at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
Generalized slowing at 2-4 Hz and seen continuously throughout the recording.
There appears to be some stimulation in this rhythmic ictal discharges (SIRPIDs) that occurred first with holding the eyes shut, there was a rhythmic Cz sharp ictal discharges for a period of 2 seconds at 3 Hz that is only slowly stopping and then later on while they squeeze the right hand, there was a C3 rhythmic discharge at 3 Hz at C3 that lasted for 11 seconds and later on when they squeezed the left hand, there was a C4 discharge also at 3 Hz, lasting 5 seconds.
SEIZURES:  None.
HEART RATE:  120.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to generalized slowing, some central focal slowing as well as SIRPID.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction as well as focal cerebral dysfunction in the central region, both of which are nonspecific in regards to etiology.  In addition, there were rhythmic discharges that occurred related to stimulation most consistent with SIRPIDs.  This pattern is of unclear significance and in this case, it does not appear to be epileptic as it did not continue to evolve into further seizures.  If the patient remains unresponsive, repeated EEG with prolonged recording may be helpful in clarifying any recurrent seizures.



