CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 21-year-old right-handed male with developmental delay, admitted to the hospital after the patient had breakthrough seizures.  He ran out of his medications a week ago and had at least 6 seizures.  He may have an aura for his seizures.  Mom describes tonic-clonic seizure activity with incontinence.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Ativan, Topamax, Trileptal.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.  The patient had greasy hair, which complicated impedances.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 7 Hz alpha rhythm.  The background includes both excess beta and theta.  There is some head rocking artifact noted.  There are occasional shifting asymmetries with underlying arrhythmic delta noted in the right or left hemisphere.  There are also bursts of more rhythmic, frontally predominant delta and some notched delta.  Hyperventilation produces bursts of higher amplitude 2-3 Hz delta, again some of which is notched.  In addition, there are some asynchronous bursts of slowing in hyperventilation, a bit more prominent on the left.  Prominent lateral rectus artifact was noted in sections of the record.  EKG artifact was problematic in this study.  Photic stimulation at 17 Hz seemed to elicit an irregular, somewhat generalized sharp and slow wave complex.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Generalized background slowing.
Poor organization.
Bursts of frontally predominant rhythmic delta activity in wakefulness.
Shifting slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  There are suspicious, underlying slow spike and wave complexes noted in this record, particularly after the close of hyperventilation, but no definitive spike and slow wave complexes.  The background slowing may be part of a postictal pattern or part of this patient's chronic static encephalopathy.  A follow-up study perhaps with better scalp conditions and more extensive sleep may be helpful to capture slow spike and wave activity.



