History:	29 year old man who a known seizure disorder, now presents with increase in his
seizure frequency.
Medications:	Phenobarbital, Felbamate, topamax
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~19 hours from 04/29/2015 till 04/30/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse delta and theta
activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  There is
intermixed diffuse excess beta while awake. With sleep the background appears to become more
intermittently suppressed and with a more predominant diffuse delta slowing.  No normal sleep
Frequent bifrontal and central maximal polyspikes that have a large field. Their frequency
improves by the end of the recording epoch.  Multiple seizures per hour (up to 20 from 4 pm to 5
pm) are captured early in the recording.  They last no more than 10 seconds and stop by 10 pm.
Seizure are characterized by diffuse beta followed by attenuation and then muscle artifact with
sudden stop. This is followed by frontal predominant rhythmic delta for about 3 seconds.  Clinically
the patient flexes his neck and lift both arms in a bicycle handle position and in a tonic fashion.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent generalized, stop by 10 pm
Excessive fast
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video ~19 hour EEG due to diffuse background slowing, frequent
generalized clinical seizures that stop by ~ 10 pm. The above findings indicate generalized type
of epilepsy and are frequently seen in this patient.  Diffuse background slowing is etiologically non-
specific, but in this patient is at least partially related to the medication effect.  These findings were
conveyed to the primary team.architecture was present.





