History:	76 year old woman with a  history of left MCA stroke in 11/2014, subsequent focal
left frontal status epilepticus in 11/2014 and a convulsion in 3/2015.  Patient now
has diffuse body tremors and persistently poor mental status.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The background is diffusely slow with excess theta frequency activity.  There is a fragmentary
posterior dominant rhythm that attains 6-7 Hz over the right hemisphere.  There is excess beta
activity seen.  The entire record shows excess theta activity, more prominent over the left.  Stage I
and Stage II sleep are seen.
There is intermittent delta activity noted over the left hemisphere.  There are rare left fronto-
temporal sharp waves seen.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  Of note, the patient has a nearly
constant head tremor, that appears clinically similar to titubation.  She is also intermittently drowsy
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left hemispheric
Sharp waves, rare, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video-EEG due to diffuse slowing, focal left hemispheric slowing,
and rare left fronto-temporal sharp waves. These findings suggest a diffuse structural brain injury as
well as focal left hemisphere lesion with epileptiform potential.  These findings were conveyed to
the primary team.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.






