REASON FOR STUDY:  Confusion.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 79-year-old woman with confusion, found down by the family with bladder incontinence, no shaking, had a seizure episode like that 2 years ago.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.

MEDICATIONS:  Heparin, insulin, Keppra, hydralazine, amlodipine, and aspirin.

INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included photic stimulation.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches at best 8.5 Hz over the right hemisphere.  This is not well-noted over the left hemisphere.  There is some frontal central beta seen only over the right hemisphere.  Activating procedures including photic stimulation produced no abnormal discharges.  Sleep is noted better over the right hemisphere, but appears to be normal.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
1. Focal slowing seen over the left hemisphere maximal in the mid temporal region with an associated loss of faster frequencies over that region.  This is seen continuously throughout the recording.
2. Some intermittent focal slowing seen over F8/T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-40 microvolts.

SEIZURES:  None.

HEART RATE:  60.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left hemispheric slowing, maximal in the anterior temporal region as well as loss of faster frequencies in addition to independent right anterior temporal focal slowing.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cortical structural dysfunction over the left hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region, which has a high correlation with a cortical lesion, fluid collection, and/or postictal state.  In addition, there is independent right anterior temporal focal slowing, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No clear seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.


