CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 42-year-old, left-handed, cognitively impaired woman with exacerbation of drop attacks, drooling, and excessive sedation on Zyprexa.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote, Neurontin, many others.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient has multiple episodes of head rocking during the recording and then removes her electrodes.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The patient had multiple episodes during the first 24 hours, which were abbreviated because the patient removed her electrodes. All were brief episodes characterized by dropping of the head.  The patient had other behaviors including agitation and tremulousness of the hands, which were not specifically stereotypic and not associated with EEG changes.
HEAD BOBBING (DROP ATTACKS): Multiple episodes when the patient has loss of axial tone and her head drops are identified. These were associated with 2.5 to 4 Hz frontally predominant spike and slow wave activity emanating out of an abnormal background.
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP:  This section of the record includes an entirely awake background.  There are portions of the record when the patient is awake and cooperative.  At this time, the EEG is low voltage with diffuse theta without a discernable posterior dominant rhythm.  The interictal background includes frequent, frontally predominant, 2.5 to 4 Hz spike and slow wave activity, which is irregular.  There is an unusual field of spread and the activity is maximum in the frontal region, but involves the right hemisphere somewhat more than the left, and the left temporal region seems to be relatively spared compared to the right, although both hemispheres are clearly involved. Looking at the maximum in the frontal regions, there is some variability in terms of F3  versus  F4 and there is  some  shifting  asymmetries  in terms of where the frontally predominant spike and slow wave activity is, FP1 or FP2. There is also some variability in terms of the degree of spread to the posterior regions.  Multiple bursts of slow spike and wave activity or more rhythmic spike and wave activity and theta frequency activity are seen without clinical correlate.
HR: (EKG lead N/A for this section.)




