DATE OF STUDY:  June 30, 2014, to July 1, 2014.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 51-year-old woman with epilepsy dating to childhood, at least 3 complex partial seizures, sometimes with or without aura, associated feeling of panic and running.

MEDICATIONS:  Tegretol, zonisamide.

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  During this last 24 hours of EEG monitoring, the patient had received her seizure medications back.  No clinical seizures were noted by the patient or the clinical team.  There were frequent push buttons to check the integrity of the system.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  During maximal wakefulness, the background EEG at times is somewhat disorganized with a 7-8 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  There are very few epileptiform features noted in wakefulness.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS with some evidence of slow wave sleep including higher amplitude delta.

Interictal epileptiform detections:  Primarily in stage 2 sleep, independent, right or left temporal sharp waves or spikes were noted.  In addition, on the morning of July 1st between 4 and 5 a.m., more rhythmic sustained focal slowing was noted from the right temporal region, but without clear ictal evolution.

Clinical seizures:  None identified.

Heart rate 78-90 bpm.

IMPRESSION:  This final day of EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
1. Epileptiform features, which include sharp waves or spikes from the right or left temporal region noted primarily in sleep.
2. Sustained rhythmic slowing from the right temporal region.
In addition to the findings identified in this 24-hour epic, this patient demonstrated clinical seizures characterized by head turning and body turning to the right with extension of the right arm and then movements of both arms.  She appears to have some dystonic posture of the left.  Running was noted with almost all of her seizures.  In addition, she reported auras not all of which had a clear electrographic signature, but some of which were associated with tachycardia.  The clinically significant seizures that were recorded were all consistently associated with tachycardia.  One clinical seizure was not captured by the system.  These findings were discussed with the patient, who understands that additional testing will be needed to continue a presurgical evaluation.

