History:	25 year old man with a known seizure disorder and mitochondrial disorder, now
presents with increase in his seizure frequency.
Medications:	Ativan 2 mg PO (given ~ 30 minutes prior to the recording), Keppra, Vimpat and
Phenobarbital
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of diffuse moderate to
high amplitude polymorphic sharply contoured theta and delta activity with underriding low
amplitude beta activity.  There are occasional brief bursts of diffuse high amplitude delta activity.
Patient remains awake throughout the recording.
Even though the background is very sharply contoured in appearance, there is only one likely
epileptiform discharge which is an isolated generalized spike-and-wave.  Patient has episodes of
staring and rapid eye blinking.  Electrographically, these episodes are associated with excess EMG
artifact but without clear ictal correlate.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Beta, excessive
Spike-and-wave complexes, one, likely
Event, few, no clear ictal EEG correlate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable STAT 28 minute awake-only EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing
and disorganization and a single generalized spike-and-wave discharge. Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  A single
generalized epileptiform discharge suggests diffuse cortical irritability.  When compared to the prior
EEGs, this recording does not differ significantly from the prior recordings.  Multiple episodes of
staring and rapid eye blinking are captured.  None are associated with clear ictal correlate.  Events
resolved by the end of the recording and patient started conversing appropriately (he could not do
that at the onset of the  recording).





