CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 57-year-old female with history of COPD, hypertension, precordial effusion, CHF status post PEA code, lasting 11 minute on 08/17 at 9 a.m.  Hypothermia protocol was followed on 08/17.  She was warmed on 08/18.  Last temperature was 98.9 at 12 p.m.
MEDICATIONS:  Heparin, insulin, Solu-Medrol, azithromycin, midazolam as needed, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed in ICU using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures the patient in a comatose state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This is a technically limited study due to diffuse muscle artifact throughout most of the recording.  In the comatose state, there was seen diffuse attenuation of the background with intermittent EKG artifact.  There was seen very low voltage 1.5 Hz delta frequency activity and occasional 3 Hz theta delta frequency.  There was seen no spontaneous variability or reactivity on stimulating the patient.  No seizures or epileptiform activity was seen during this technically limited recording.  Heart rate is 80 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing the patient in a comatose state due to diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background.  No seizures or epileptiform activity was seen during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a limited study with diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background suggestive of severe anoxic encephalopathy, which is most likely in this patient.  Alternatively, it could be due to severe metabolic or infectious encephalopathy or due to the effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  In addition, diffuse attenuation could be seen in bilateral fluid collection in the extra-axial space or the overlying skull.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were seen in this technically limited study.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  A repeat EEG using paralytics may be helpful in the right clinical setting.



