History:		33 yr old male after a surgery, presents with events concerning for seizures (gaze deviation and facial twitching).
Medications:	Depakote, Keppra, Versed, Vancomycin, Zosyn, propofol,
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient}, 24 hrs
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 03/102015 till 3/11/2015. Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Early in the recording, while awake, the background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta <delta activity.  As versed is added, the background changes to primarily diffuse spindle-like/ alpha-frequency  monormophic activity.
Focal right occipital seizures are captured.  Early in the recording seizures last -1.5-2.5 minutes and occur several times per hour. As the recording progresses, their frequency and duration lessen with no clear seizures identified by the end of the recording epoch.  Seizures are confined to to the occipital region/ right occipital- parietal region (02/P4 and 01 leads) and have no clear clinical correlate.
Additionally, right posterior quadrant spikes are captured. Their frequency, too, decreases as the recording progresses.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe Seizure, intermittent, right posterior
Spikes, right posterior
Interpretation:
This is an abnormal 24 hours continuous video EEG due to (1) moderate-to-severe diffuse slowing and
(2) right posterior seizures and epileptiform discharges that resolve by the end of the recording epoch. Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this case at least partially related to the medication effect (versed). There is an epileptogenic, likely structural focus, in the right occipital/ parietal (right posterior quadrant) region. These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team on several occasions.




