History:	41 year old man with several months of shaking episodes.
Medications:	Dilantin, Avian
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~17 hours from ~1 pm on 12/19/2013 till ~6 am on
12/20/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.   The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  It is at times fragmented.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity
is present early in the recording.  Diffuse excess beta activity is noted.  During drowsiness, the
background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the
alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further
to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.  slow
wave sleep and REM sleep are also captured.
No focal slowing is present.
No typical events were captured.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild, present early in the recording
Event, absent
Beta, excessive
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 17-hour continuous video EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and
disorganization observed early in the recording.  These improved as the recording progressed.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction and in
this case could be related to the medications.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.
These findings were conveyed to the primary team.


