CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 57-year-old male, who presented on April 4th with cardiac arrest, atrial fibrillation, and PEA code.  Question opiate overdose.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, phenobarbital and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was intubated and unresponsive without involuntary movements.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  The initial hours of the record showed a generalized periodic complex, most notable in the frontal regions with a periodicity of approximately 2 Hz.  There is a small degree of  of variability in this.  In addition, there is some complexity in the discharges with some clearly demonstrating F3 phase reversal or FP2 or even a poly phasic component.
In the early section of the morning hours, the patient's midazolam is increased to 10, which does produce some slowing of the background, but the periodic activity persists.  The midazolam is decreased and eliminated and briefly, the epileptiform activity slows.
As the epileptiform activity waxes and wanes in it some points, including 6:17 p.m., the activity is clearly slowing with more clear focality in the frontal regions particularly FP2, F8 and F3, phenobarbital was initiated with  600-800 mg of phenobarbital.  This produces intermittent amelioration of the epileptiform activity with bursts of theta delta and some rhythmic theta.  This is most notable at 3:29 p.m. which point there are isolated frontal sharp waves.  Additional doses of phenobarbital are not recorded in correlation with the EEG.
By 4:42 a.m., the epileptiform activity is  reappearing and in the early morning hours of April 7th, the epileptiform activity does seem to wax and wane.  At 5:47 a.m. there was more of a theta pattern with clear blunting of the epileptiform activity.
Intermittently, more sustained and generalized periodic complexes were identified.
The EEG recording was discontinued at 10 a.m.  At that time, more sustained  generalized periodic activity at a frequency of 1.25 Hz was noted without frequency evolution.
Heart rate:  90 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This final 25.5 hours of continuous video EEG monitoring was remarkable for,
Complex generalized periodic epileptiform activity, which clearly demonstrated some focality and some response to the use of the phenobarbital infusion.
Absence of reactivity or variability.
Markedly abnormal background even in this sections without epileptiform activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  For this individual, now more than 72 hours,  status post cardiac arrest, these findings carry a worrisome prognosis.  An additional EEG monitoring or neurophysiologic testing may be of value.





