CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 54-year-old female presents with history of 2 episodes of loss of consciousness with generalized shaking and urinary incontinence and postictal confusion.  The patient also reports left-sided weakness occurred with fall.  Past medical history is significant for ethanol abuse and hypertension.
MEDICATIONS:  Tylenol and Ativan.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The tracing captures wakefulness through a stage 2 sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm is 10-11 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a generalized low amplitude beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  There are occasional bursts of independent bitemporal slowing at F7/T3 and F8/T4 during drowsiness and sleep.  A stage 1 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves.  Stage 2 sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles.  Heart rate was 70 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to independent bitemporal slowing during drowsiness and sleep.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were captured in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of either bilateral structural abnormalities or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  Other causes include metabolic, toxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepine or barbiturate or could be due to anxiety or hyperthyroidisms.  No epileptiform abnormalities were seen in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  If seizures are a clinical concern, a prolonged EEG monitoring may be helpful.



