History:	57 year old male with right ICH and altered mental status, now resolving.
Medications:
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is the appearance of more normal cerebral activity with a more consistent and well formed
posterior dominant rhythm achieving 8-9Hz..  Rarely, the background activity is characterized by
diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior
gradient of frequencies.  There remains intermittent frontal Delta activity, with a triphasic
morphology.  Improving sleep architecture is seen with some stage I and stage II sleep.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, rare, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing..  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Overall the record has
improved from yesterday.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were
conveyed to the primary team.




