CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 75-year-old female presents on 04/29/2013 with history of right-sided shaking and found to have sepsis.
MEDICATIONS: Nitroglycerin, Insulin, Albuterol, Heparin, Aspirin, Zosyn, Potassium.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures including photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 7-8 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  The background activity was characterized by diffuse theta activity of 5-7 Hz in frequency intermixed with delta activity 3-3.5 Hz in frequency.  Drowsiness was characterized by disappearance of the posterior dominant rhythm and a motor slowing of the background activity, absence of muscle and eye blink artifacts.  During wakefulness and drowsiness, there were intermittent bursts of frontal intermittent delta activity seen with a frequency of 1.2-1.5 Hz and amplitude of 50-70 microvolt lasting for 2-3 seconds.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies with no driving response.  Heart rate was 90 to 95 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm and background activity.
The presence of FIRDA burst during wakefulness and drowsiness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of toxic metabolic encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to infectious anoxic hypoxic encephalopathy or due to effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  The FIRDA bursts could also be due to increased intracranial pressure or deep midline lesions in the brain.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures are identified in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



