CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 44-year-old, right handed male, with new onset episodes of loss of consciousness triggered by coughing associated with anxiety.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Ativan, Klonopin, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  During this EEG monitoring session the patient's Keppra was reduced.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  January 28 to January 29, 2013:  In wakefulness the background EEG is well organized.  In the transition to drowsiness wicket activity is noted.
There is some technical difficulties noted with this record, including the problems with the video, but no epileptiform features were noted.
Heart rate:  78.
January 29 through January 30, 2013:  During this section of the record the patient experiences no seizures.  No epileptic seizures are noted by the computerized seizure detection or by the clinical team.  During this section of the record, wakefulness is well organized.  In the transition to stage 2 sleep, left temporal wicket was noted.  It is also seen more subtly on the right.  This appears as the patient reaches stage 2 sleep with vertex waves and spindles.  No epileptiform discharges were noted in this section of the record.  No seizures were recorded.
January 30 to January 31, 2013:  Due to technical difficulties the initial sections of the EEG are difficult to retrieve.  During this section of the record, the patient was encouraged to stay out of bed and to use the exercise bike.  His Keppra dose was reduced.  This section again demonstrates a pattern of wicket seen in the temporal regions, left more so than the right.  This appeared as the patient transitions into stage 2 sleep.  Stage 2 sleep is fragmented in this individual and frequent arousals from sleep were observed.
The patient was described as having a panic attack sometime between 4:39 and 5:49 a.m. for which he received Ativan.  The video and EEG were both reviewed.  The patient seemed to be restless in sleep, did not appear to be particularly anxious, was not tachycardic.  Of note, he does have significantly fragmented sleep.
By 8:26 he was awake and with his eyes open, but overall no epileptiform features were noted and in fact even the behavioral features for this panic attack were quite mild.



