CLINICAL HISTORY:  22 year old with Angelman syndrome and epilepsy, 1-2 seizures per week which are often "silent laughing and hard."  She rolls back, falls.  The seizures are 10-20 seconds.  Afterwards there is no postictal impairment.  She also experiences staring spells.
MEDICATIONS:  Topamax.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient has difficulties sitting still for this EEG.  In addition, she is moving about in the EEG lab during the study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Despite the technical limitations described above, this is a low voltage pattern.  It is difficult to identify an alpha rhythm.  When the patient relaxes, there is a rhythm 5-6 Hz diffuse pattern.  Underlying this, there is a suggestion of a sharp wave in the central region.
There are also bursts of independent, sharply contoured focal slowing with sharply contoured mixed theta-delta typically lasting less than 2 seconds.  These may be seen independently from the right or the left.
As the recording continues, the child has more difficulty sitting still.
At the very end of the record, there is a brief section where there is a hint of a better organized pattern and even an 8.3 Hz alpha rhythm.  This is followed by some bursts of again the sharply contoured theta which in this case almost seems like it comes out of the central regions, but a bit more on the right.  The patient is noted to stare.  The staring does seem to be associated with rhythmic, sharply contoured activity out of the right hemisphere. Photic stimulation is attempted.
There is a 7 Hz, magnified high amplitude driving response and then a driving response noted at other flash frequencies as well with an extremely high amplitude and hypersynchronous driving response.
HR:    90 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
What appears to be a markedly abnormal background with rare section with an 8 Hz alpha rhythm.
Epileptiform activity from the central regions, one of which might have been clinically significant with 5 Hz right central theta.
Bursts of sharply contoured activity with independent right or left temporal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In that the background EEG is abnormal, a more prolonged EEG, although technically challenging, might helpful to determine which of the various wave patterns described above are clearly epileptiform and which are part of her inner ictal pattern.  In addition, there was a brief section where the record looked significantly more normal.  There were no prior EEGs for comparison.



