CLINICAL HISTORY:  44 year old woman with epilepsy, anxiety, impulse control disorder, profound mental retardation, autism.  She was seen in the emergency room on August 17, 2012 with a new type of seizure in which the patient fell back and hit her head.
MEDICATIONS:  Simvastatin, Mycolog, Levonorgestrel Ethinyl, Estradiol, Depakote, Phenytoin, Ferrous, Sulfate, Folic Acid, Neurontin, Calcium, Fluoxetine, Risperidone, Motrin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient was somnolent throughout much of the EEG.  She was asleep throughout significant portions of the EEG and attempts to awaken the patient were limited until later on in the study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is a pattern of a relatively diffuse slowing with an alpha rhythm that never exceeds 7 Hz.  With stimulation there is a burst of frontally predominant delta of 2.5 to 3 Hz and in those bursts there seem to be some notched discharges compatible with a slow spike and wave pattern.  Immediately following these discharges, the patient drifts off to sleep.  As she drifts off to sleep the background is slow, disorganized with intermittent focal slowing from the left hemisphere.
Multiple epileptiform discharges were identified in this record.  These include left mid to anterior temporal sharp waves, polyspike activity which tends to be maximum in the left hemisphere, including left temporal region, but sometimes has a bihemispheric spread.  Occasional right temporal sharp waves.
In addition, photic stimulation appears to elicit slow spike and wave activity with some polyspike and wave activity.
Photic stimulation was performed later on in the record when the technologist was trying to awaken the patient from sleep.  In addition, during photic stimulation there were also some more generalized, but posteriorly predominant spike and wave complexes.
HR:   96 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
A moderate background slowing while awake.
Multiple epileptiform discharges.
Slow spike and wave activity.
Focal slowing characterized by a bit more arrhythmic delta on the left.
Epileptiform activity which included left temporal sharp waves or spikes, left hemisphere or left temporal fast activity, slow spike and wave activity, which was relatively predominant and generalized.
Posteriorly predominant spike and wave activity during photic stimulation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a bihemispheric and complex pattern.  No seizures were recorded.  If additional information is needed, a more prolonged study capturing her seizures may be of value.



