:
History:	64 year woman with a history of a single nocturnal convulsion ~ 1 month ago.
Patient also reports brief episodes of abnormal sensations that occur several times
Medications:	no AEDs
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant consists of moderate amplitude symmetrical 10 Hz alpha activity that
attenuates with eyes opening.  There is expected AP gradient over the left and weak AP gradient
over the right.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity
becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During
stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep
There is continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity over the right temporal region.
Independent  intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the left temporal region
during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent low-to-high amplitude independent
sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured during over the right frontotemporal and right
temporooccipital regions.  Phase reversal occurs over F8/F8/T4 electrodes and T6/O2 electrodes,
respectively.  Frequency of sharp waves increases significantly during deeper stages of sleep and as
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces diffuse,
symmetric moderate voltage brief bursts of theta-delta activity.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-
21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional abnormalities.  A single EKG lead
demonstrates heart rate <60 bpm and occasional premature QRS complexes.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, mild-to-moderate
Sharp waves, intermittent, right, independent frontotemporal and temporal-occipital
Sleep, stage 2
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 1 hour awake and asleep EEG due to continuous moderate right temporal
slowing, intermittent mild-to-moderate left temporal slowing and frequent independent right
frontotemporal and temporooccipital epileptiform discharges observed during sleep.  Continuous
focal slowing and frequent epileptiform discharges  are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic
focal structural lesion on the right.  Intermittent focal slowing is indicative of focal cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  A single EKG lead
demonstrates heart rate <60 bpm and occasional premature QRS complexes.

spindles and K complexes appear. the sleep progresses.




