History:	43 year old man with a history of Rasmussen's encephalitis and functional
hemispherectomy, now presents with increase in his seizure frequency.
Medications:	Phenobarbital, topamax, IVIG
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake
Description:
There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms at higher amplitudes over
the left hemisphere.  The background over the right hemisphere consists of a mixture of theta, delta,
beta, with unstable 8-9 Hz PDR and weak AP gradient.  No normal background organization is
present over the left.  The background on the left consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude theta
and delta admixed with underriding fast activity and continuous  left temporoparietal spikes
(maximal scalp negativity over T5/P3 electrodes.  Patient remains awake throughout the entire
About 8 clinical and electrographic seizures are captured, lasting ~60-140 seconds.  Seizures
differ slightly in their evolution (depending on seizure duration).  Electrographically seizures start
with decrease in amplitude of left temporoparietal spikes and increase in their rhythmicity to ~2-3
Hz.  After several seconds of this activity, there is sudden pseudo normalization of the background
with moderate  amplitude monomorphic 7-8 Hz frontal theta and slower diffuse low amplitude
polymorphic theta activity.  It gradually evolves into moderate amplitude theta with overriding
delta.  At times, low amplitude fast activity is noted over the left posterior quadrant.  Other times,
As seizures evolve further, discrete moderate-to-high amplitude spikes re-appear.  Clinically rapid
eye flutter is reported.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, left, recurrent focal seizures with left temporoparietal onset
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Spikes, frequent, left, temporoparietal (T5/P3 maximally)
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal awake only 23-minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; (2) continuous
moderate left hemispheric slowing; (3) frequent left temporoparietal epileptiform discharges and (4)
recurrent 60-140 second clinical and electrographic focal seizures with left posterior quadrant
onset.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing, frequent epileptiform discharges and seizures emanating
from the left posterior temporoparietal region indicate focal structural lesion.  These findings were
conveyed to the primary team.  Patient will be placed on continuous long-term EEG monitoring.

