CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is an 82-year-old female with hypertension, dementia, and history of hypoglycemia secondary to a decrease in p.o. intake who presented with new onset generalized tonic-clonic seizures.  CT scan of the head showed diffuse cerebral atrophy.
MEDICATIONS:  Hydrochlorothiazide and Lovenox.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using a standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the lethargic state, there was diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background with intermittent EKG artifact.  The background activity was characterized by 3 Hz delta frequency activity of 5-10 microvolt amplitude intermixed with occasional 4-5 Hz theta frequency activity.  There was seen spontaneous variability and reactivity on stimulating the patient.  Eye blink artifact were seen during this recording with no clear posterior dominant rhythm.  No seizures or epileptiform activity was seen during this recording.  Heart rate was 90 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing the patient in a lethargic state due to diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background.  No seizures or epileptiform activity was seen during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background are suggestive of severe encephalopathy.  It could be due to severe toxic metabolic or infectious etiologies or due to effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  It also could be due to postictal state.  In addition, diffuse attenuation could be seen in bilateral fluid collection in the extra-axial space or the overlying skull.  Clinical correlation was recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



