CLINICAL HISTORY:  21-year-old woman with learning disability, atypical absence, and seizures with stiffening and dropping since age 1.  Mother states that she continues to have staring spells, most recently 1 month ago.  Placed on Depo-Provera 3 weeks ago, but found to be 5 weeks pregnant with abdominal pain and nausea.
MEDICATIONS:  Zarontin, lamotrigine, and prenatal vitamins.
INTRODUCTION:  A 40-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  This was a technically satisfactory study.  This patient had multiple electrographic discharges with clinical impairment of awareness identified with some. Hyperventilation was deferred.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm identified.  The waking background includes generous beta as well as some theta in the occipital regions.  In wakefulness, an occipital spike and slow wave complex was noted of 3-4 hertz.  The spike may be bilateral or more prominent in the right or left occipital region.
Features of drowsiness include an increase in theta.  Lambda was noted in wakefulness with POSTS noted in sleep.
Epileptiform abnormalities include occipital 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity, which may be unilateral or bilateral.  In this relatively high amplitude record, there is some underlying theta noted.
Seizures: This patient had between 15 and 18 electrographic discharges, which are 3-5 hertz in nature.  They are generalized with some variability in terms of maxima, some seem to have maximum in the right frontal or occipital regions, other at Pz, and others are more clearly a generalized pattern.  They occur as the patient is drifting off to sleep; early stage 1 and stage 2 sleep.  Most discharges are either 7-10 seconds or 17-20 seconds duration.  The technologist performs testing.  The technologist attempts to perform testing early on in the discharges, but arouses the patient approximately 5-7 seconds in the discharge and stimulation of the patient does appear to terminate the discharges.  In the longer bursts, the technologist is able to demonstrate that the patient is not aware that she has had an event and the patient stated that she was sleeping even during the events in which she was awake.  Towards the close of the EEG, the events are starting to occur out of stage 2 sleep and then again with auditory stimulation the patient alerts.
Very limited photic stimulation was completed: a driving response was noted.
Heart rate 90 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Multiple bursts of 3-5 hertz spike and wave activity of 7-10 seconds in duration with variable maxima and variable onset. Some are clearly clinical seizures
Rhythmic theta prior to the spike and wave activity.
Occipital spike and slow wave complexes.
Posterior theta.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  There are no previous EEGs for comparison.  This EEG suggests a generalized mechanism for epilepsy.  There are many atypical features noted in this record and a consideration for an atypical absence or secondary generalized process is appropriate.



