REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This patient is a 25-year-old man with a history of left parietal tumor resection now with recurrent small hemorrhages and refractory seizures.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, Depakote, Vimpat, and phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed from 8/23/2013 to 8/24/2013 for a total of 24 hours using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and a single lead EKG electrode.   The patient was recorded while unresponsive and intubated.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software in relation to nurses' notes, alarms, as well as review of the EEG as well as primary team notes was used to review the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  There is no normal slope architecture.  No normal stage changes.  There is some reactivity.  Overall there is diffuse delta background at 2-4 Hz.  During the day the patient is placed on Versed and the EEG continues to be slow but there is an overriding of beta discharge mainly in the frontal region sometimes as the electroencephalogram continues appears to be slightly more diffuse.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
SEIZURES:  The patient had a total of 7 seizures, the first 1 in this 24-hour period occurring at 11:00 in the morning.  The great majority of them lasted for a period of 2-3 minutes.  They all appeared to start with a fairly generalized alpha discharge at 11 Hz that settles more prominently at the T5/O1 electrode and then remains at the O1 electrode mainly.  Of note, there is some discharged through P3 and then continues to decrease in frequency and increasing amplitude and then slowly becomes slower voltages and small spikes are seen on the occipital region until it stops. There is postictal slowing noted heavily over the entire left hemisphere.  No clear clinical correlation was reported with these seizures specifically.
HEART RATE:  96.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left occipital seizures as well as generalized swelling.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of status epilepticus with multiple seizures arising from the left occipital hemisphere.  There is evidence of generalized diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is at least in part due to medication affect.  Please note that for the past 19 hours the patient has not had any more seizures while on a Versed drip.  These findings were communicated to the primary team.



