CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 55-year-old woman with previous right occipital ischemic insult, patient with increasing nausea, ascites, and cirrhosis.  Family stopped seizure medications due to nausea.  Patient now with repetitive seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Vimpat, and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  A 20-minute digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient was poorly responsive.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is low voltage and slow.  There is 7 hertz theta frequency noted in the frontal regions.  The overall activity is lower voltage and slower, particularly in the right posterior quadrant with intermittent attenuation on the right.
Notable in this record are 5 electrographic seizures, maximum in the right posterotemporal region of 6.8, 6.7, 7.8, 8.4, and 10 seconds in duration.  In addition, there are brief bursts of sharply contoured theta or low voltage sharp waves noted at T6.
Throughout the record, the patient is somnolent with head turning to the right, but no clinical features are noted in an association with electrographic seizures.  Stimulation of the patient produces muscle, and the muscle and stiffening were not associated with epileptiform discharges.
As the patient was allowed to drift off to sleep, the background EEG demonstrates a markedly slow pattern with intermittent suppression on the right and sharp waves noted in the right posterotemporal and centrotemporal region.
Heart rate 96 to 104 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Markedly abnormal EEG due to:
Multiple brief, electrographic discharges compatible with BIRDS/brief seizures.
Sharp waves in the right posterotemporal regions and centrotemporal region.
Focal slowing in the right posterior quadrant.
Markedly slow and disorganized background, low voltage.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  For this individual with a recent seizure in hours before the EEG, these electrographic discharges may be part of a status epilepticus pattern.  This patient was placed on continuous video EEG monitoring based on these findings.





