CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 74-year-old woman with Alzheimer's disease and declining mental status, possible seizure, senile dementia with delusional features, and Stiff man syndrome.  The patient had an episode of shaking lasting 2-3 minutes in June or July.
MEDICATIONS:  Baclofen, glipizide, metformin, Remeron, Seroquel, atenolol, multivitamins, Aricept.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement.  The daughter accompanied the patient and inclined to have the patient sit in the EEG chair.  The patient was sitting upright at the family's insistence throughout the entire EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins the patient is awake.  She is sitting uncomfortably in the chair.  The background EEG includes a theta pattern with frequent eye blink.
As the patient drifts off to sleep, there are simple sharp waves noted in the frontal regions.  Intermittent attenuation was also noted in the background.
As the patient is becoming a little more relaxed there is intermittent attenuation of the background.  There are also seems to be a biological positive sharp wave noted with a positivity in the anterior temporal regions, almost a metabolic appearing pattern which is relatively symmetric and bilateral.  The patient is awake during the remainder of the EEG with more of a rhythmic theta pattern.
Heart rate:  54 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to:
Marked background slowing.
Intermittent attenuation.
Rare triphasic waves.
Occasional simple bifrontal sharp waves.
Unusual, bilateral positive anterior temporal sharp waves with an almost metabolic appearance.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The findings described above are compatible with a significant, chronic encephalopathy.  Advanced Alzheimer's disease can be associated with epileptiform activity as described above.
Some of the features described above are those seen typically in a metabolic pattern.
If there are concerns about rapidly progressive dementia for this individual, a follow up EEG in 6 weeks, perhaps including sleep and perhaps allowing us to make the patient a little bit more comfortable, may provide additional information.



