CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 55-year-old gentleman with neurofibromatosis.  traumatic brain injury approximately 1 year ago, and has been in a nursing home since that time, travels by wheelchair.  The patient is a limited historian, but recalls that seizures begin with an aura of a sense of smell, than tremors in the brain, tongue biting, and incontinence, lasting 5-10 seconds. Positive family history of neurofibromatosis type 1.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, melatonin, finasteride, phenobarbital, Trileptal, many others.
INTRODUCTION:  Routine outpatient digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  This was a technically satisfactory EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the recording begins, the patient is quite drowsy. The overall EEG demonstrates a continuous, diffusely slow pattern, higher amplitude on the left in comparison to the right.  There is a suggestion of her breach rhythm given the amplitude asymmetry.  Occasional sharp waves were noted from the left hemisphere. Maximum in the left mid temporal region.
Hyperventilation was performed early on in the record and it seems to accentuate focal slowing from the left hemisphere. It also seems to accentuate some of the beta activity, left frontal, and central frontotemporal region.
Photic stimulation did not significantly activate the record.
Heart rate: 66 BPM.
IMPRESSION:
Abnormal EEG due to generalized background slowing.
Higher amplitude, arrhythmic delta activity noted on the left.
Focal slowing from the left hemisphere characterized by disruption of faster frequency activity.
High amplitude sharp waves or spikes from the left hemisphere, particularly in the left mid temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings may be correlated with imaging for this adult with a longstanding neurogenetic history plus what appears to have been a history of significant head trauma.  No seizures were recorded. Previous EEGs were not available for comparison.





