CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 53-year-old female who presents with frontal headaches for several weeks.  She had confusion on 08/01/2013 with abnormal MRI consistent with old stroke.  She has a history of substance abuse.
MEDICATIONS:  Coreg.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using the standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness only.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 6-7 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 5-6 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontal central beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  There are intermittent bursts of left mid temporal slowing during wakefulness consisting of 5-6 Hz theta activity lasting for 2-3 seconds.  Heart rate was 70 beats per minutes and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity seen during wakefulness.
Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
Left temporal slowing seen during wakefulness.  There are no epileptiform activity or electrographic seizures noted during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to metabolic, toxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  The left temporal slowing could be suggestive of an underlying structural abnormality in the left hemisphere or left temporal dysfunction.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



