CLINICAL HISTORY:  56 year old right handed woman with lupus, questionable stroke, question lupus cerebritis versus herpes encephalitis, now with recurrent spells.
MEDICATIONS:  Topamax, Aggrenox, Valium
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient experienced no seizures during the first 24 hours of long-term monitoring.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Random wakefulness and sleep:  In wakefulness, there is a well formed 9 Hz alpha rhythm.
Practice pushbuttons:  Time 11:31:21 the patient is awake.  Normal awake EEG pattern is noted.  Of note, afterward, there is a burst of irregular, paroxysmal slowing.
Pushbutton:  Time 1:24:11 p.m.  The patient is awake.  This appears to have been an accidental pushbutton.
#3:  Pushbutton time 6:05:15.  The patient is awake, working with the nurse, getting ready to eat dinner.  No epileptiform features are noted, although when the patient eats, there is a great deal of chew artifact.
#4.  Time 9:06.  This is a practice pushbutton by the nurse.
#5.  9:42.  Practice pushbutton.  After the nurse leaves, the patient appears to be a little drowsy with some paroxysmal slowing and a bit of shifting slowing.  The patient transitions in and out of stage 2 sleep.  Sleep appears to be somewhat disrupted and she tends to sleep sitting up.
HR:    72 bpm
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient has no clinical seizures during the EEG monitoring.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  No epileptiform features are noted.  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized.  In this section of the record, the patient has much more sustained stage II sleep and fewer arousals.  On rare occasions, there are occasional paroxysmal bursts as she drifts in and out of sleep.
HR:    90 bpm
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Normal awake and sleep EEG. No spikes but occasional paroxysmal irregular bursts in drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness the background includes a well organized background.  Stage II sleep includes vertex waves, K-complexes, and spindles. In the transition in an out of sleep, there are occasional asynchronous bursts.
No epileptiform discharges were identified in this 24-hour section.
IMPRESSION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
Some somewhat irregular paroxysmal bursts.
A pattern which may represent impaired sleep with frequent transitions between wakefulness and sleep in the first 24 hours, but with more consolidated daytime wakefulness and night time sleep as the long term monitoring went
LONG TERM MONITORING – 12- 43 – 04/05/2012
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness the background includes a well organized background.  Stage II sleep includes vertex waves, K-complexes, and spindles. In the transition in an out of sleep, there are occasional asynchronous bursts.
No epileptiform discharges were identified in this 24-hour section.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:   This EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
Some somewhat irregular paroxysmal bursts.
A pattern which may represent impaired sleep with frequent transitions between wakefulness and sleep in the first 24 hours, but with more consolidated daytime wakefulness and night time sleep as the long term monitoring went on.
No seizures were recorded.
No spikes or sharp waves were seen.



