LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  24 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 52-year-old woman with a history of a right subdural hematoma with subsequent seizures.  The patient also has a history of ataxia, dementia, behavioral disturbances and bipolar disorder.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  Zonisamide, Depakote, Aricept, lamotrigine, clonazepam as needed, Abilify, citalopram, and others.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation was not performed. Stepped photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with faster waveforms at lower amplitudes observed over the left hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere reaches 8.5 Hz alpha activity.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency gradient over the left, but it is unstable.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere consists of polymorphic 8 to 8.5 Hz activity with weak anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Additional diffuse polymorphic theta and occasional delta activity is observed.  Additional polymorphic theta and delta is observed over the left temporal region.  During brief drowsiness the amount of theta increases.  There are no clear epileptiform discharges.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation does not result in additional abnormalities.  Heart rate of approximately 60 beats per minute is noted on a single EKG lead.
FINDINGS:
Mild diffuse slowing and disorganization.
Focal right hemispheric slowing and disorganization.
Focal left temporal slowing.
No electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and briefly drowsy 24 minutes EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and disorganization, focal right hemispheric slowing and focal left temporal slowing.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal right hemispheric slowing and focal left temporal slowing indicate underlying focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  No electrographic seizures were captured.



