History:	PRIOR EEG 65 YR OLD MALE WITH EPILEPSY, 2 MCA STROKE ,
APHASIA.POST STROKE SZ

PRESENT FOR MULTI SZ
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 28 hours from 05/09/2014 to 05/10/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	1
Description of pushbutton events
Patient was shaking his head side to side and exhibiting mouth movements. The EEG was
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) are present in the
PZ/P3 region at a rate of 1-2 Hz.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
Summary of Findings:
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous parietal, central
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hr EEG because of continuous periodic lateralized epileptiform
discharges (PLEDs) in the left centro-parietal region.  These findings are indicative of a highly
potentially epileptogenic acute focal destructive lesion in the region.  No electrographic seizures
are present.  In addition there is marked diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These
findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  The episode
of head shaking was not epileptic in nature.

