History:	52 year old woman with a history of seizures since childhood.
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  The
background over the left consists of polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude 9 Hz alpha activity,
excess polymorphic theta and delta activity and poor AP gradient.  There is no clear PDR or AP
gradient over the right.  The background over the right consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta
and delta activity and continuous right temporal (T4/T6 maximally) sharp waves.  These sharp
waves have a very broad field,  increase in frequency during drowsiness/ sleep and often occur in
non-evolving runs with a repetition rate of 0.75-1.25 Hz.  Rarely, left midtemporal (maximal over
T3) high amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are present.  Drowsiness and sleep are
characterized by increase in diffuse theta and delta activity as well as occasional sleep-spindle-like
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and increases degree of the
background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not
produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Sharp waves, continuous, right temporal, T4/T6 maximally
Sharp waves, rare temporal, mid, T3 maximally
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 1 hour EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing and
disorganization; (2) continuous moderate right hemispheric focal slowing and right temporal
epileptiform discharges (often appearing in rhythmic non-evolving runs); and (3) rare left
midtemporal epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There is a focal structural abnormality with
increased epileptogenic potential over the right, specifically right temporal region.  There is
increased epileptogenic potential emanating from the left midtemporal region.  When compared to
the prior EEG reports, this EEG is not significantly different.  No seizures captured/ present.and K-complex-like waveforms.




