CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 21-year-old woman with nocturnal epilepsy since age 14 with tongue biting. Migraine headaches.  Most recent seizure 4 months ago.
MEDICATIONS:  Trileptal.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  This is a greater than 20 minute routine EEG with hyperventilation and photic stimulation.  Impedances were under 5 kilohms with the exception of the T1-T2 electrodes.  There was significant muscle artifact noted in the background.  The EEG captured wakefulness and sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm with frequent eye flutter.  Mu activity was noted in the central regions, although testing was not performed to confirm this.  There is a small amount of theta noted in the background in addition to the eye flutter.
Hyperventilation was performed early in the record.  It did increase some of the theta noted bilaterally.  In addition, a single left temporal sharp wave was noted during hyperventilation.  Temporal wicket was noted as the patient became drowsy, but at least with 1 discharge, there was a suspicious, subtle underlying left temporal sharp wave observed.  The patient transitions in and out of stage 2 sleep.  Sleep was not sustained.
Photic stimulation elicited bilateral driving. As the patient was awakened for photic stimulation at the end of the record, there is a bit of left mid to posterior temporal theta with a suggestion of an underlying mid to posterior temporal sharp wave.
Heart rate 66 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is remarkable for:
Excess background theta while awake.
A single well-defined left temporal sharp wave with 2 other suspicious left temporal sharp waves as well, one of which was posterior-temporal.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This patient's medications may play a role in the background theta.  Although there were very few epileptiform discharges, there was a single well-defined left anterior temporal sharp wave supporting a focal mechanism for epilepsy in this individual.



