History:	22-year-old right-handed woman presents with a history of epilepsy of 4 years
duration. Her last seizure was 3 weeks ago. Semiology: dizziness followed by
unresponsiveness with head and eyes deviation to the right, some jaw twitching. It
usually lasts for 3-5 minutes. Per her uncle, she may have several episodes per
month. She feels sleepy for several minutes post-ictally.
Medications:	Depakote 500 mg BID
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, well-formed on the right
side, which attenuates with eye opening.  Symmetric beta activity is present, maximal over bilateral
frontal regions.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the temporal (maximum at F7) region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent focal sharp waves are present in the left
temporal region, with amplitude maximum at F7/T3, with a field involving O1 and F3.  During
hyperventilation, a single focal seizure with left-sided frontotemporally predominant rhythmic sharp
and slow waves is present  at the onset with a higher amplitude at F7 and T3. This activity spreads
over 2-3 seconds to the left occipital and right hemisphere.
The amplitude increases bilaterally with the seizure onset, but the left temporal region has greater
rhythmicity with a focal high frequency rhythm at F7/T1/T3. The muscle artifact begins to obscure
the cerebrally generated EEG activity. Some of the leads  are pulled out due to the patient's
involuntary movements. Diffuse background suppression is noted between bursts of muscle artifact.
The EEG corresponds to a versive gaze and head deviation to the right followed by loss of
consciousness and tonic posturing lasting for about 3-4 minutes.  Stepped photic stimulation is not
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, left temporal
Sharp-and-slow-wave complexes, left frontotemporal, with secondary generalization
Seizure, left hemispheric seizure
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of intermittent focal slowing in the left temporal region. This
finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly
structural in origin.  frequent epileptiform discharges in the left temporal region. This finding is
indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region  , and given the clinical complex
partial seizure captured during this recording, is consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related
epilepsy with secondary generalization.  The patient is advised to see her neurologist ASAP
performed.  HR 60 -110


