CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 44-year-old man with a past medical history of adult onset seizures who presented with 2 episodes of generalized tonic-clonic seizures.  The patient remained lethargic.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Ativan, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG monitoring was performed using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement and 1 channel of EKG monitoring.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Records were daily reviewed for EEG abnormalities and clinical events, wakefulness, stage 2 sleep, and a slow wave sleep were captured.  There was an automated spike and seizure detection system in place as well as the patient activated alarm system.  The patient was drowsy with short periods of wakefulness during this recording.
Interictal EEG:  In the most alert state, there was a posterior dominant rhythm with a frequency of 9-9.5 Hz and 25-40 microvolts seen in the occipital region, which attenuated with eye opening.  There was presence of low-amplitude diffuse beta frequency, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness, stage 1 and a stage 2 sleep were seen during the most part of this recording.  Stage 1 sleep was characterized by the disappearance of the alpha rhythm slowing of the background and absence of eye blink and muscle artifact, vertex sharp waves, and POSTS.  Stage 2 sleep was characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles, and POSTS.  The deeper stages of sleep have characterized by increasing amounts of delta frequency activity.  There were no epileptiform activities or seizures were captured during this recording.  Heart rate was 90 to 110 beats per minute.
CLINICAL EVENTS:  No clinical events were captured during this recording.  The patient was drowsy, but arousable by calling the patient.
IMPRESSION:  This is a normal EEG monitoring study capturing short periods of wakefulness and for the most part of the recording drowsiness stage 1 and stage 2 sleep.  There were no epileptiform activities or seizures noted during this recording.  This EEG does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  If seizures are of a clinical concern, a repeat prolonged video EEG monitoring may be helpful.  Please note that the patient was tachycardiac.



