History:	63 YO FEMALE POST TUMOR REMOVAL,  LEFT TEMPORAL REGION 2010.
NO SEIZURES SINCE SURGERY, BUT INCREASED CHANGES IN MENTAL
Medications:	TOPAMAX, TEMOVATE, ALLEGRA, COZAAR, CARDIZEM, HYDRODIURIL
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates with eye
opening.  Frontally predominant 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.  During drowsiness, the
alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by vertex waves.  During
stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and sleep spindles and K
complexes appear.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal F7 region and
independently over the P3/T5 region.  Background activity shows higher amplitude and
accentuation of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere with sharply contoured activity in the
left posterior quadrant, consistent with breach rhythm.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
induces a vigorous photic driving response with higher amplitude in the breach region.  HR is 90.
Summary of Findings:
Breach artifact, continuous, left posterior quadrant
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left frontal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left posterior quadrant,  with a breach
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of continuous focal slowing in the
left frontal region and left parietal region. This finding is indicative of severe focal cerebral
dysfunction in both regions, likely structural in origin. The breach rhythm is consistent with the



