History:	85 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O S/P CODE APPROX 45 MIN. NOW ON
HYPERTHERMIA PROTOCOL
Medications:	Propofol, fentanyl
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~15 hours from 03/09/2015 till 03/10/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of burst-suppression pattern.  The degree
of suppression lessens by the end of the recording with bursts extending from 1-6 seconds to 20-30
seconds.  Bursts at first consist of frontally predominant very sharply contoured theta activity.  As
bursts lengthen, there appears to be evolution of theta activity within the bursts.  No normal sleep
architecture is present.
Subtle paucity of the faster frequencies is noted over the left hemisphere by the end of the
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.  Sinus
bradycardia with heart rate <60 bpm is noted on a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Burst-suppression pattern, decreases by the end of the recording
Other, possible bifrontal seizures
Focal slowing, polymorphic, left hemispheric, subtle
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 15 hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to burst -suppression
pattern, subtle left hemispheric focal slowing and possible bifrontal seizures seen by the end of the
recording epoch. Diffuse slowing indicates severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Continuous focal
slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  There is bifrontal cortical irritability,
however, definite seizures are not seen.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult
team.





