CLINICAL HISTORY: 53 year old male with refractory complex partial epilepsy and occasional tonic clonic seizures. status post vagal nerve stimulator. Simple partial seizure this morning. Seizures currently described as a strange feeling, which lasts a long time with visual distortion, but no loss of consciousness. Past history of head trauma in 1978 with coma for 1 month.
MEDICATIONS: Trileptal, Lamictal, Klonopin, Clonazepam
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic simulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The activity from the left hemisphere is markedly low voltage. There is a 10 hertz alpha rhythm identified on the left and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity. The right hemisphere is remarkable for breach rhythm with prominent accentuation of beta frequency activity in the right region with arrhythmic delta activity in the temporal region and nearly continuous sharp waves from the right temporal region with some variability, but most of which are maximum at T6 or T4. The activity is nearly iso-electric at F8-T2. From the right central region, there is very prominent beta frequency activity with harmonic and supraharmonic activity including 5 hertz, 1 0 hertz, 16 hertz and 32 hertz. Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation of the alpha rhythm on the left. Hyperventilation produces an increase in amplitude of the activity particular in the breach as well perhaps a suggestion of new in the right frontocentral region. Photic stimulation is difficult to interpret because of all of the harmonics that are superimposed in the frontocentral region.
HR: 72 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Focal slowing in the right mid to posterior temporal region.
2. Prominent breach activity from the right frontocentral region with prominent faster frequency activity.
3. Right mid to posterior temporal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are similar to previous study. In this individual who appears to be postictal this morning, he is awake, alert and conversant. Consideration what the fast activity from the frontocentral region could be ictal may be valuable.



