EEG DATE:  12/06/2012  to 12/07/2012 for a total of 10 hours from 10 p.m. at night to 8 a.m. in the morning.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 55-year-old woman with status post subarachnoid hemorrhage status post coiling of a p-common aneurysm with recurrence and need for clipping and seizures ever since the subarachnoid hemorrhage, who now presents with recurring episodes despite multiple medications.
MEDICATIONS:  Patient is currently on Keppra, Vimpat, and zonisamide.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  Patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz, which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontal central beta.  Patient is recorded in wakefulness, stage I, stage II, and deeper stages of sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
Abnormal discharges:  Focal slow waves seen frequently at FA/T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz, amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  At times, this is very sharply contoured and there is increase in the faster frequencies associated with a breach.
Seizures:  None.
Events:  During this recording at around 8:20 in the morning, the patient had an episode where she was slow to respond and follow commands for about 2-3 minutes.  She was not completely unresponsive, but was very slow to respond and was staring.  During this episode, the EEG had no changes.
Heart rate:  72.
During the episode, there was no change also in the heart rate.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal electroencephalogram due to frequent right anterior temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the right anterior temporal region, which is consistent with the known surgery.  No seizures were seen.  Please note that the episode of poor responsiveness had no EEG correlate and suggestive of a nonepileptic event.



