CLINICAL HISTORY: 47-year-old male with previous craniotomy in tile left occipital region and epilepsy. Seizures ere characterized by shaking end falling.

MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Depakote, Seroquel, Nexium
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed In the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. This is an awake and drowsy record with photic stimulation, but no hyperventilation. Impedances were acceptable, below 5 kilohms with the exception of the T1-T2 electrode. Craniotomy defect was noted in the left occipital region.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In maximal wakefulness, there is a 6 Hz posterior dominant rhythm. There Is a prominent amplitude asymmetry with higher amplitude activity on the left compared to the right. In addition, even with accounting for the amplitude differences. there is significantly more rhythmic ___________ activity in tile left hemisphere than the right, and the right hemisphere seems to have a bit more theta and delta. Once the patient drifts off to sleep, there is an Increase in slowing. There are also some bursts of sharply contoured slowing noted in the left posterior quadrant with occasional left occipital sharp waves maximum P301· T5 which can be differentiated from the breech rhythm and emerges. The patient’s background theta disappears in drowsiness.
Photic stimulation did not significantly activate the record.
Heart rate: 72 BPM.
IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal EEG due to:
1. Bilateral background slowing with slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
2. Despite the breach rhythm in the amplitude asymmetry local stowing on tile right with disrupted faster frequency on the right.
3. Sharply contoured slowing or sharp waves as the patient becomes drowsy.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG supports a bihemispheric process, but 1 which has affected each hemisphere differently. The overall background is slow. The arrhythmic delta on tile right suggests an underlying process on the right affecting white matter. The sharply contoured slowing on the left supports localization-related epilepsy. No previous EEGs are available for comparison.



