TYPE OF STUDY:  Portable EEG.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 19-year-old female with history of TBI on 11/09/2012 and multiple problems in surgical ICU status post tracheostomy.  She had first-time seizure yesterday described as eye twitching and questionable right facial droop, lasting less than 1 minute witnessed by mom who is a nurse at the hospital.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include Ativan as needed, morphine, Keppra, Lovenox.
INTRODUCTION:  A bedside digital EEG was performed in the ICU using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1-channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures the patient in a sedated and confused state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This was a technically limited study due to electrode placement and diffusely attenuated recording.  In a sedated state, there was attenuated background consisting of 5-6 Hz theta frequency intermixed with alpha activity and also beta frequency.  There were bursts of sleep spindles diffusely with diffuse distribution noted.  There was burst of rapid eye movement artifact noted on several occasions during drowsiness.  There were no epileptiform activities or seizures noted during this recording.  Heart rate was 100-120 and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is a technically limited, but abnormal EEG recording capturing the patient in a sedated state due to 1 absence of posterior dominant rhythm and slowing and attenuation of background activity, intermixed with sleep spindles in bursts.  No epileptiform activity or seizures were captured in this study.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of metabolic, toxic, anoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.  Diffuse beta activity can be seen due to effect of sedative medications include barbiturate or benzodiazepines.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG with better electrode placement is recommended.



