DATE OF THE RECORDING:  05/16/2013 from approximately 2:00 p.m. until 05/17/2013 until approximately 2:00 p.m.  Total time of the recording is approximately 24 hours.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 19-year-old woman with a history of seizures who now presents with recurrent complex partial seizures and a change in behavior, subsequently found to have status epilepticus.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal, Versed, phenobarbital.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
The recording was reviewed on several occasions during the 24 hour recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency gradient.  The background consists mostly of a mixture of low amplitude delta activity with underwriting faster frequencies and 1 to 4 second diffuse bursts of spindle-like waveforms.  No clear normal architecture is captured.  Multiple electrographic seizures of variable duration are noted throughout the recording.  Seizure duration varies from 30 seconds to over 30 minutes.  Seizure onset is often poorly localized.  Some start with bilateral central frontal fast activity that increases in amplitude and decreases in frequency to the alpha range.  More prolonged seizures start with diffuse frontally predominant delta activity with underwriting by frontocentral faster activity.  This activity increases in amplitude and decreases in frequency, and spreads throughout other cerebral regions.  During multiple long seizures the seizure output is not clear.  There has been some tachycardia noted on a electrocardiogram lead.  During seizures heart rate increases to approximately 120 beats per minute.
FINDINGS:
Intermittent electrographic seizures with poor localization and lateralization with variable durations from 30 seconds to approximately 30 minutes.
Moderate to severe diffuse slowing and low amplitude attenuation.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24 hour EEG due to intermittent seizures and frank status epilepticus as well as moderate to severe diffuse slowing.  The slowing indicates etiological nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction, and in this case likely related to medication effect.  These findings were conveyed to the Primary Team.



