History:	81 year old man with metastatic melanoma status post recent right frontal
craniotomy, now presents with confusion and aphasia.
Medications:	Keppra, phenytoin, versed IVP
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~ 23 hours from 12/25/2013 till 12/26/2013.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real
time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  There is no
PDR and no AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta
activity with under riding fast activity.  Theta and delta activity is more prominent over the right
hemisphere.  Periods of quiescence are present with some normal sleep architecture seen early in
Recurrent electrographic seizures are captured.  Their frequency increases significantly after ~
11:35 AM, with highest seizure frequency of ~ 9-10 seizures per hour.  They start with delta activity
over the right midtemporal region.  This activity becomes more rhythmic and evolves into frank ~2
Hz rhythmic spikes with after going slow waves with maximal scalp negativity over T4/C4 electrodes
(example at ~12:33 PM).  Seizure duration is ~2-3 minutes on average.  There is no obvious
clinical correlate and patient is not tested formally during any of these events.  Between ~5 pm and
9 pm, seizures stop.  After 9 pm, they recur at the frequency of ~ 5 seizures/ hour.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric
Seizure, frequent, right temporal, mid, up to 10 seizures per hour
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 23-hour video EEG due to diffuse slowing that increases as the
recording progresses, continuous focal right hemispheric slowing and intermittent right hemispheric
(right midtemporal onset) seizures that at times occur up to 10 times per hour and last on average
2-3 minutes.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically

the recording. nonspecific.  Increase in the degree of diffuse slowing in the course of the recording is likely
secondary to the  medication effect.  Focal right hemispheric slowing and seizures indicate focal
cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology and is consistent with patient's history of metastatic
cerebral disease.  When compared to the prior recording epoch, this EEG demonstrates frank focal
status epilepticus.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team and the primary
team.


