CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 64-year-old man, who presented with altered mental status described as slowing response at times.  His past medical history is significant for diabetes, high blood pressure, CHF, and left MCA stroke.
MEDICATIONS:  Including Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed in the lab using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 8-8.5 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening. There is 6- 7 Hz diffuse Theta activity during wakefulness. Drowsiness is characterized by diffuse background slowing, shifting of the posterior dominant rhythm to anterior head regions, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  There are intermittent bursts of bitemporal slowing lasting for 1-2 seconds, 2-4 Hz in frequency, most pronounced on the left side.  Heart rate is 65-70 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing brief wakefulness through drowsiness due to the presence of diffuse Theta activity during wakefulness and intermittent bitemporal slowing, most pronounced on the left side and slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.  No epileptiform abnormalities or electrographic seizures were identified in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to an underlying structural abnormalities in the subcortical white matter of bilateral hemispheres or bitemporal dysfunction worse on the left side as compared to the right side.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or electrographic seizures were seen in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or prolonged bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



