History:	30 year old woman with new onset of events concerning for seizures.
Medications:	Trileptal in am only and then stopped
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~24 hours from 11/2/2015 till 11/3/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  During drowsiness, the background
slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm
attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate
voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  Two typical events are
captured early in the recording (~11:47 AM and 12:07 PM).  They are characterized by decreased
responsiveness, eye closure, no recollection of the event, not following commands and being
emotional at the end of the event.  They last several minutes. The background remains normal
throughout the events and following the events.
Summary of Findings:
Event, two, no EEG correlate
No epileptiform discharges
Interpretation:
This is a NORMAL ~24-hour continuous video EEG. Two events characterized by decreased
responsiveness, not answering commands and post-event emotional liability have no abnormal
EEG correlate.





