History:	46 year old man with right sided ICH, found to be in status epilepticus.
Medications:	Versed and Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~24 hours from ~6 am on 6/1/2014 till ~ 6 am on
6/2/2014.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.  The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of low amplitude
polymorphic theta and delta activity admixed with periods of discontinuity.  Additional polymorphic
delta activity is noted over the right posterior -temporal-parieto-occipital region.  No normal sleep
architecture is present but periods of arousal and quiescence are noted.
Discrete broad right P4/O2 sharp waves are observed intermittently.  No clear electrographic
seizures are captured.
An irregular heart rate is noted on a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right, temporal-parietal-occipital region
Sharp waves, intermittent, right posterior, P4/O2; broad
No electrographic seizures
Cardiac arrhythmia
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24-hour continuous video EEG due to moderate diffuse slow, focal right
temporo- parietal -occipital slowing and intermittent right posterior quadrant epileptiform
discharges. Diffuse sowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this
region.  There is an epileptogenic focus over the right posterior quadrant.  No electrographic
seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.


