CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 52-year-old male with past medical history of hepatitis C, epilepsy, ethanol withdrawal, who was found down unresponsive, found to have multi-compartmental intracranial hematoma.  The patient is in the ICU setting on ventilators.
MEDICATIONS:  Vitamin K, Protonix, mannitol, Dilantin, Cardizem, and metoprolol.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside in ICU setting using a standard 10-20 system of electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  To be an accurate determination of any electrocerebral activity, ECG performed to evaluate for ECI under specific conditions including but not limited to sensitivity of 2 microvolts per millimeters, interelectrode distances of greater than 10 cm, electrode impedance between 0.1 and 10 kilovolts, with low frequency filter 1 Hz or less and high frequency filter 30 Hz or greater.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The EEG is characterized by lacking any visible cerebrally generated activity.  The absence of visible activity generally means the absence of potential greater than 2 microvolts when reviewed at the sensitivity of 2 microvolts per millimeters.  There was diffuse EKG artifact noted throughout the recording.  There was also ventilator artifact at times noted during this recording.  There was no spontaneous variability or stimulation reactivity noted during this recording.  Heart rate was 120 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to absence of electrocerebral activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Electrocerebral inactivity is a confirmatory finding for brain death.  However, it is more useful for excluding the diagnosis of brain death than for establishing it.  Note that, ECI may occur in circumstances other than brain death.  The most common of such circumstances are sedative intoxications, profound hypothermia, and the early period after hypotensive or anoxic episode.  Clinical correlation is recommended.



