CLINICAL HISTORY: 73 year old right handed male admitted to Nursing Facility due to Dilantin toxicity who presented yesterday to the Outpatient Neurology Clinic with report of 3 seizures and proceeded to have complex partial seizures in the office with a return to the baseline, now admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for complex partial status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Tylenol.
REASON FOR EEG:  Rule out status.
INTRODUCTION:  Long-term digital video EEG was performed at bedside for 12 hours using standard 10-20 electrode placement system and additional anterior temporal single lead EKG electrode.  Seizure spike detection software was used along with nursing reports of events and review of the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  At the onset of the EEG, there was an increased amount of movement artifact.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  At the onset of record, the background appeared to be mildly slow with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 8 Hz but appears to be reactive to eye opening and closing.  There is a normal amount of frontocentral beta.  Patient during the recording does go into the first stages of sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  In the recording, there are, specifically at the beginning, frequent focal sharp waves seen at T4/T6, at times moving more anteriorly to T2/F8.  In addition, there are infrequent O2 sharp waves and T1/F7 sharp waves are also seen.  The sharp waves at times appear to become rhythmic without evolution, specifically the ones on the T2/T6 electrode.
SEIZURES:  Multiple seizures were seen at the beginning of the recording that appeared to be arising mainly from the right temporal region, specifically at the T4/T6 electrodes.  However, sometimes the seizures appeared to start or spike quickly to the left temporal region and it is difficult or unclear to note the onset.  At times, they also appeared to ping-pong from the right to the left hemisphere in the temporal region before stopping and starting.  The patient appeared to move around in bed, sometimes rhythmically  moving the right hand during the events and staring, but if talked to, would be able to answer questions simply.  After about 10:50 p.m. the seizures subsided and only about 3 of them were seen which were all arising from the right temporal region.  The last one was noted this morning around the end of the recording.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Right more than left temporal lobe seizures.
Right temporal sharp waves.
Right posterior temporal occipital sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This long-term EEG revealed evidence of partial status epilepticus arising from the temporal lobes.  The seizures, however, subsequently markedly reduced in number after two hours into the recording.  In addition, there was evidence of bitemporal focal cerebral dysfunction and diffuse cerebral dysfunction, both of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  These findings were communicated to the primary team.



