REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 43-year-old man with history of seizures after stroke, now with recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temple single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  After 8 p.m., some of the central leads were lost and by 11 p.m., all the electrodes were lost.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There were limited waveforms, as there appears to be posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 8 Hz which is seen bilaterally and reactive to eye opening.  There is an increased amount of beta seen throughout the recording.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Some intermittent focal slowing can be seen over the right hemisphere at T4/C4.
SEIZURES:  At 5 p.m., the patient had a seizure where during the video, although not clearly seen, it is apparent that the left side of his body was twitching.  However, this is not clearly seen as the video was focused on the right side of his body.  In the EEG, there is muscle artifact seen maximally over the left hemisphere in a rhythmic high-frequency fashion.  However, it is not clear if there is any appreciable discharge over the right hemisphere as there is too much muscle artifact and before the seizures started, the patient was eating which makes it even more difficult to localize or clearly identify a seizure onset.  The seizure lasted for the duration of approximately 1 minute, 45 seconds.  After the seizure, the patient was back to baseline.  No other seizures were seen.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to single seizure of unclear onset, likely arising from the right hemisphere and focal slowing in the right temporal region.  Clinical correlation is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizure likely arising from the right hemisphere.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the right mid temporal region which may be due to the previous infarct.



