:
History:	66 FEMALE WITH HA, FEELING OFF BALANCE, FOUND TO HAVE A RIGHT
FRONTAL SAH. PMH: DM, HTN, HIGH CHOLESTEROL
Medications:	None
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and
subtemporal chain, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8.5Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates and is
only seen over the left.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral
frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta
activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right posterior temporal and parietal region.
Frequent focal sharp waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at  T6/P4.
Two seizures were captured during the record. They begin with T6/P4 rhythmic sharp waves in the
delta frequency that increase in frequency and appear to become polyspikes. This discharges
continue to increases in amplitude and then slow down in frequency.  The seizures remains mainly
focused in the right posterior quadrant but do spread bilaterally in the posterior quadrant and later
bitemporally. Seizures last about 2 to 2.5 minutes.  Clinically the patient is tested and follows
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 66
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, right posterior quadrant
Sharp waves, frequent, right posterior quadrant
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right posterior quadrant
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of two electrographic seizures
arising from the posterior quadrant as well as frequent epileptiform discharges and focal slowing in
the right posterior quadrant.  These findings are indicative of a structural lesion with an
epileptogenic focus in this region.



