History:	49 year old woman with a history of reported seizures.  Patient suffered a stroke in
Medications:	DEPAKOTE, TOPAMAX
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11-11.5Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  During drowsiness, the background
slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm
attenuates and becomes intermittent. Symmetric vertex waves appear.  Rhythmic midtemporal
theta of drowsiness (RMTD) is noted.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate
voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.  Fragments of stage
Occasional polymorphic theta and delta activity is present over the left anterior temporal region.
No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with poor cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at
multiple flash rates.  HR is 84.
Summary of Findings:
Sleep, stage 2
No epileptiform discharges
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild, left temporal, anterior
Beta, excessive
Interpretation:
This is a mildly ABNORMAL awake and mostly asleep 41-minute EEG due to occasional mild left
anterior temporal slowing. This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  Excessive beta activity could be
secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  The lack of
epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.
