CONTINUATION:
EMU:  15-52-1.
ROOM NUMBER:  773.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Zarontin, medications in reduction.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring continues for a 2nd day for this 22-year-old male with staring spells.  The patient had multiple push buttons for staring spells during this 24-hour section.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Abundant stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  Of note, sleep was relatively disrupted on the 1st day, but the patient seemed to be having more extensive stage 2 sleep early in the morning on the 24th.  In stage 2 sleep, occasional beta spindles were noted.  REM sleep was noted during multiple sections of the overnight recording with multiple spontaneous brief arousals from REM sleep.  There may have been some snore artifact noted at other times, but the arousals from REM sleep were not associated with epileptiform activity or significant snoring that could be detected by the recording strategy employed.
Epileptiform seizures:  None.
Pushbuttons:  On the 24th, there were 17 push button events.  Two of these were practice pushbuttons.  These events span primarily around 12:19 p.m., but standard time from 12:07 p.m. until 1:57 p.m., and then again 3:31, 4:32, and 7:18:45.  The patient is communicative and conversing with the nurse during the blinking spells.  He is awake during all of them.  After sometime, the nursing staff does not enter for every spell, but the patient can be seen clearly involved and engaged in activities and in some cases talking on the phone.  No epileptiform features were identified with the push buttons.  The EEG consistently demonstrates a normal awake pattern, although he does have some increase in heart rate.  For the 1:57 p.m. event, the patient does demonstrate a clear change in heart rate with a somewhat irregular heart rate at the end.
Epileptiform Detections:  Rare epileptiform detections were noted exclusively in sleep in this section of the record.  They are primarily seen in stage 2 sleep and include frontally predominant 2.5 to 4 Hz spike and wave activity as well as a isolated spike and wave activity.  With review using an average reference, some of the isolated spikes demonstrate a maximum between FC and F3.
Heart rate 60 to 90 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This 48 hour EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
An interictal EEG, which demonstrates spike and wave and slow spike and wave activity, at this time, exclusively in sleep, similar to the previous EEG monitoring from 2006 to 2010.
Multiple episodes of blink, involuntary blinking noted and wakefulness.
On rare occasions, an irregular heart rate.
Disrupted sleep with multiple arousals from REM sleep.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No epileptiform features were noted in association with the patient staring and blinking.  The irregular heart rate was also noted at other times and the patient was not experiencing the clinical symptoms and referral for Cardiology consultation is suggested.






