CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 63-year-old woman with history of aneurysm,  now with intermittent shaking spells, headaches, and feeling as if she has a lightening bolt in her head followed by a difficulty moving arm and leg.
MEDICATIONS:  Unknown.
INTRODUCTION:  A 36 minute routine video EEG was performed in the lab/ using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was completed.  The patient experienced shaking spells during the EEG, which were unlike her usual spells.  During which the patient experienced multiple tremulous spells, which she states are unlike her usual seizures.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontal central beta.  In drowsiness, there is intermittent left temporal focal slowing with brief bursts of theta/delta
Photic stimulation was performed early in the record.  The patient reports that photic stimulation made her feel extremely uncomfortable.  It produced a normal driving response, but the patient stopped the photic stimulation because she felt unwell.  During the 19 hertz stimulation, she had an episode of shaking of the legs, unassociated with a change in the EEG.  Afterwards, she felt that she was going to throw up as is typical with 1 of her spells.  During the EEG, the patient felt that she was going to be sick at 3:27.  She did not vomit.  By 3:28, she continues to feel unwell and cannot catch her breath, but the EEG shows a normal awake pattern.
At 3:29, the patient is crying.  At 3:32, the patient reports pain and is consoled by the nurse.
The patient continues to feel unwell, but the EEG demonstrates normal awake pattern.  Patient is able to follow commands.  At 3:40, the patient has an experience where she cannot close her eyes.  EEG demonstrates a normal awake pattern.  The physician enters at 3:43.  EEG continues to demonstrate a normal awake pattern.  At 3:50, the patient is crying and again the EEG demonstrates a normal awake pattern.
Heart rate: 96 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This 36 minute EEG was remarkable for:
Multiple somatic complaints without EEG change. Normal EEG during the spells
Intermittent Left temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  EEG monitoring will follow to look for potential epileptiform seizures.




