History:	35 year old man status post cardiac arrest and hypoglycemia.
Medications:	VERSED, Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~22 hours from 04/21/2015 till 04/22/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse delta
and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  There
is an intermixed intermittent frontal beta.  With stimulation/ during arousals, rhythmic non-evolving
bifrontal delta activity is captured.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right temporal region.  There is focal
attenuation of beta activity and faster frequencies over the right temporal region.  As the recording
progresses, the degree of focal right hemispheric slowing decreases.  No clear electrographic
Electrode artifact affecting several parasagittal leads is seen in the second half of the recording.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric, especially temporal, improves by the
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL ~22 hour continuous video EEG due to continuous focal slow and
attenuation of the right temporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal cortical lesion in this
region or alternatively there could be a collection of fluid overlying that region.  This focal slowing
improves as the  recording progresses - it is suggestive of post-ictal phenomenon.  In addition there
is moderate diffuse background slowing and disorganization.  These findings are etiologically
nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.seizures are present.




