CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 35-year-old male with granulomatous disease and new-onset seizures, some of which include a feeling as if his left leg is vibrating.  Blurry vision.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, prednisone, metoprolol, oxycodone, many others.
INTRODUCTION:  26-minute digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient was awake and cooperative, but later, did say that he thought that he had 1 of the episodes of vibrating them during the EEG.  He is known to have marked hypoglycemia with a glucose of 500 and previous CNS meningeal enhancement.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the initial sections of the record, the EEG is somewhat slow with excess theta and an 7.5-8 Hz alpha.  There is intermittent rhythmic slowing as well as some left focal slowing and a single right temporal sharp wave.
Hyperventilation was performed early in the record, clearly increasing the theta in the background. I t also elicits a train of C4 sharp waves of 53 second duration. Onset is unclear, but the burst ends with paroxysmal slowing, c/w a poorly defined seizure.  The patient is unchanged
At 4:42, another poorly defined seizure began with an increase in fast activity in the central regions and then with bilateral frequency evolution. Late in the 1.29 min seizure the EEG shows L temp slowing.  Following the discharge, the EEG is better organized. The patient is alert, answering questions during the seizure. He reports later that he felt that the left body was vibrating.
Heart rate 90 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Background slowing and disorganization.
Rhythmic background which is asymmetric, sometimes more so on the left.
2 electrographic seizures, with slightly different patterns, one maximal C4. Neither with impairment of awareness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This EEG supports an ongoing epileptiform process with discharges at C4 but with complex ictal patterns in both seizures.  Seizure semiology for the clinical event is congruent with a process in the R hemisphere.





