History:	65 year old female with TBI and frequent electrographic seizures.
Medications:	Midazolam, phenytoin, levetiracetam
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Excessive beta activity is seen.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Focal left hemisphere delta slowing persists that is more pronounced that slowing on the right.
Overnight, there has been a marked improvement in the record with near cessation of frequent left
hemispheric electrographic seizures.  The record instead now consists of diffuse delta and theta, with
an increase in underlying beta activity.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  No other new behavioral changes have been observed.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Beta, excessive, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour EEG because of diffuse background slowing, focal slowing, and
absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse
cerebral dysfunction as well as focal injury in the left hemisphere.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures are present. Excessive beta activity may be a medication effect.  These findings were
conveyed to the primary team.






