History:	80 year old woman who presented with right sided weakness in the setting of severe
hyperglycemia.  Left subdural hematoma was subsequently found.  Patient was less
responsive this am, in the setting of relative hypoglycemia.
Medications:	Ativan 2 mg yesterday., Labetalol, protonix
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 26 hours from 07/02/2014 to 07/03/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
There is right to left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms and voltage attenuation
over the left.  The background over the right consists of 9 Hz PDR with normal AP gradient and
excess theta activity.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of attenuated polymorphic
theta, delta and occasional alpha activity with absent AP gradient.  No normal sleep architecture is
Nearly continuous ~1 Hz quasi-periodic low amplitude poorly formed and localized sharp waves
are noted over the left, with maximal scalp negativity over ~C3/P3 electrodes (1Hz quasi-PLEDs).
These progressive become less prominent and by about 5PM are  no longer seen.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  An irregular heart rate is note at time at
a rate of 96.
Summary of Findings:
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), left central
Attenuation, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, marked
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and continuous moderate left
hemispheric moderate focal left hemispheric slowing, attenuation and left centroparietal quasi-
periodic epileptiform discharges that improve.. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Focal left hemispheric slowing, attenuation and
epileptiform discharges indicate focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, with
increased epileptogenic potential.  Voltage attenuation could indicate a fluid collection between a
skull and a brain, such as hematoma, empyema, etc.



