CLINICAL HISTORY:  60 year old female with left ICA terminus aneurysm and history of migraine headaches.
MEDICATIONS:  Propofol, Vecuronium, Fentanyl, Keppra.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Intracranial intraoperative monitoring for left ICA terminus aneurysm clipping.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed during intraoperative monitoring for aortic aneurysm clipping with a limited montage based on the 10-20 electrode placement system during the entire procedure.  The patient was reviewed during this entire procedure and changes in the EEG were reported to the physician.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The study begins with a normal background with a posterior dominant rhythm that appears to reach 9 Hz and there is some frontal and parietal beta seen with the limited montage.  As the recording continues about an hour and a half into the procedure at 10:48 a.m., there appear to be burst suppressions noted and reported to the physician.  As the record continues, there continues to be burst suppression with bursts lasting less than 2 seconds, but with some faster frequencies noted throughout them and the bursts were occurring frequently.  At about 11:55, the patient has the clip performed and later on the SSEPs are to be noted to be decreasing in amplitude.  By noon, there is a noted change in the EEG with an asymmetry of the faster frequencies seen in the short-lasting bursts over the left hemisphere.  This is reported to the team and the clip is removed by 12:02.  At that point, there is an improvement in the frequencies, however, the patient is reclamped at 12:07 and there is again a drop and changing amplitude over the left hemisphere in the short-lasting bursts.  By 12:11, there is an improvement again the faster frequencies over the left hemisphere.  By 12:20, there is a much better improvement in the frequencies again of the left hemisphere.  This improvement continues to be seen better and better throughout the recording.  However, later on there is diffuse flattening of the EEG as the medication is increased and by 1:17 there is already again burst suppression seen.  By the end of the recording, there is larger amplitude and longer bursts seen that have no significant symmetry in the faster frequencies.  These changes were all reported to the surgeon.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is an eventful aneurysm clipping surgery. There was a change noted in the faster frequencies over the left hemisphere with clipping. The change improved after removal of the clip but returned with re-clipping after this the change improved on it’s own.  These changes were all reported to the surgeon and at the end the faster frequencies over the left hemisphere remained unchanged.



