History:	29 yo p/w myoclonic status epilepticus and hx of mitochondrial disorder; pneumonia
aspiration; resp failure; hypoxia; high blood pressure. pmhx: Dementia, HTN, SZ
pshx: stab wound to abdomen, vagal nerve stim.
Medications:	Phenobarbital, Felbamate
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 48 hours from 03/272015 to 03/29/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse delta
and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  There
is intermixed diffuse excess beta while awake. With sleep the background appears to become more
intermittently suppressed and with a more predominant diffuse delta slowing.  No normal sleep
architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Frequent bifrontal and central maximal polyspikes that have a large
field. These at times last for about a second and are followed by a more prominent diffuse slowing.
There is 1 seizure per during the record on 03/28/2015 at 02:35 AM  Seizure on EEG: Sudden
diffuse beta followed by attenuation and then muscle artifact with sudden stop. This is followed by
frontal predominant rhythmic delta for about 3 seconds. This last 7 seconds.  Clinically the patient
flexes his neck and lift both arms in a bicycle handle position and in a tonic fashion.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 120
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, single generalized
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Excessive fast, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  a single generalized seizure, which is consistent with a
symptomatic generalized epilepsy. This is a marked improvement in seizure frequency. In addition
there is severe  diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically
nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.





