History:	26 yo male with a history of seizures that started after MVA in 2008. Seizures have
increases over passed year.
Medications:	Klonopin, Methadone, Nicoderm, Advair, Zestril, Zyrtec, Sinequan, Desyrel, Prozac,
Neurontin, Geodon, Ativan, Restoril, Lamictal, Lidoderm, Voltaren, Motrin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 12 Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording.  Diffuse excess beta is present.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta
activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  Sharp waves with phase reversal over Cz are noted.  These occur
during wakefulness and drowsiness/ sleep.  Etiology of these sharp waves is not certain - could
represent intrusions of sleep into wakefulness.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with fair cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Sleep, stage 2
Sharp waves, frequent central, Etiology of these sharp waves is not certain - could represent
Beta, excessive
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 31 minute awake and asleep EEG due to mild diffuse slowing. This finding
is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this
patient could be related to excessive drowsiness or medication effect.  Frequent central sharp waves
are present during wakefulness and sleep.  Etiology of these sharp waves is not certain - could
represent intrusions of sleep architecture into wakefulness.  A repeat study may be of benefit.  Excess
beta could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.


