LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  58 minutes.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 55-year-old woman found in asystole on 06/18/2013 upon arrival to the hospital.  The patient was down for at least 11 minutes.  Now she remains in a coma and has myoclonic jerks.  Past medical history notable for HIV, diabetes, hypertension, emphysema, hepatitis B, heart disease and drug abuse.

MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include vecuronium 5 mg and Versed 2 mg were given during the study.  Precedex was stopped at 7 a.m. today on 06/19/2013.  Prior to that the patient was receiving propofol.

CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with an additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Additional chin EMG lead was applied.  The recording was performed at the bedside.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  At the beginning of the recording diffuse rhythmic and semi-rhythmic muscle artifact is noted.  This artifact resolves once vecuronium is administered.  Once EMG artifact resolves, the background consists of a mixture of theta and alpha activity with brief periods of discontinuity and intermittent diffuse frontal predominant sharp waves with after going slow waves.  As the recording progresses frequency of these frontal and predominant sharp waves increases gradually.  At approximately 12:44 p.m. these discharges become more rhythmic.  There is a gradual evolution of this activity into sharply contoured 3 Hz delta activity observed over the bilateral parasagittal leads.  This activity persists without significant change for the next several minutes; however, there is gradual increase in frontal and predominant rhythmic EMG artifact and it accompanies this activity.  Clinically, frontal eyebrow twitching is noted.  This activity persists until approximately 1:02 p.m. when 2 mg of Versed is administered.  Then there is a rapid resolution of EMG and rhythmic activity and evolution of the background lower to moderate amplitude relatively monomorphic alpha activity.  As the recording progresses, there is increase in amplitude and additional theta activity is observed.  Again, bifrontal sharp waves become more prominent.  These discharges again become more rhythmic at approximately 1:25 p.m. with gradual evolution into rhythmic, approximately 3 Hz sharply contoured delta activity most pronounced over the bilateral parasagittal leads.  Since the persistent sinus tachycardia with heart rate up to 150 beats per minute is noted in a single EKG lead.

FINDINGS:
1. Two prolonged, greater than 15 minutes, electrographic seizures with poor localization, most pronounced over bilateral parasagittal leads.  Second seizure occurs by the end of the recording and is not fully developed.
2. Moderate diffuse slowing.
3. Bifrontal poorly formed sharp waves with after going slow waves.




IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 58 minute EEG due to 2 electrographic seizures, one of which is greater than 15 minutes in duration.  Additional moderate diffuse recurrent slowing is observed.  Slowing indicates etiological nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction, and in this patient is likely related to anoxic injury as well as medication affect.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology consultant team.




