CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 64-year-old woman, previously evaluated at Drexel for nonepileptic seizures, abnormal MRI, recurrent events and anxiety, evaluate for seizures.  Patient reports that i if she tactile stimulation of the scalp, produces drops.  She also is aware of events with tremulousness and stress-related seizures.

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG, seizure and spike detection software.

MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal, topiramate, others.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
October 27 to October 28
Background:  In wakefulness, the background includes a well-organized 10 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Stage II sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.
Epileptiform Detections:  None.
Patient Events:  There are 3 events at 6:51, 3:53 and 4:35.  The patient pushes the button for all of the events with the exception of 1 event when the nurse was present at 6:51.  She stares off into space, is verbally unresponsive, and does not identify a code word.  In the 1st event, she stares off into space and is poorly responsive followed by some chewing movements.  She is able to follow some commands during that event.  In the other 2 events, she demonstrates tapping movements of the right hand.  For all 3 events, the EEG demonstrates a normal background.

Heart rate 60 bpm.

INTERVAL IMPRESSION AND CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This 1st 24 hours of video EEG monitoring was remarkable for a normal background in wakefulness through stage II sleep, but with 3 events without an EEG change.  The patient demonstrated impairment of awareness with the events suggesting that these events may be part of this patient's repetitive of anxiety-related seizures (nonepileptic seizures).

October 28 to October 29, 2914: During this section of the record, the patient experienced multiple nonepileptic seizures at times: 8:45, 9:48, 4:12 p.m., 6:27 p.m., 7 p.m., 8 p.m., 10:16 p.m., and midnight.

Background:  In wakefulness, the background EEG includes a symmetric reactive 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  Stage II sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTs.

Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  None.

Pushbutton Events:  There are 8 push buttons, and event that occurred while the patient was unhooked. The patient described that tactile stimulation of her scalp produces the events that she experiences.  The events are experienced by the patient as being different but she is able to push the button for all events.  She is unresponsive.  She may moan, grimace and demonstrate automatisms in the right hand.  She is responsive during the events and while examined by the physician for the 8:47 a.m. event, follows commands, taking a deep breath and participating with the physical exam.  She does not recall the code word for any of the events.  She describes the events as feeling to her as if they are much different, Some of them feel to her as if she is just dropping out.  She is aware that tactile stimulation of the scalp can produce the events.

Normal EEG was  associated with all of these events.
Heart rate 66 bpm.

IMPRESSION:  This 2nd 24 hours of video EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
1. Multiple events without an EEG signature but with alteration in the patient's mental status.
2. A normal background.

October 29 to October 30, 2914

INTRODUCTION:    The patient had multiple behavioral events for which she was able to push the button.  In the overnight recording, she had some problems with electrode artifact.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm and a small amounts of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS.

Epileptiform detections:  None.
Electrographic seizures:  None.

Events:  Multiple practice push button were noted.  In addition, behavioral events were noted at 9:56 a.m., 12:39 p.m., 3:20 p.m., 8:45 a.m., and another on the morning of the 30th at 9:09.  Although, there was electrode artifact for the events on the evening of the 29th and the morning of the 30th, no epileptiform activity was noted for any of these events and all were associated with an otherwise normal EEG, despite some movement artifact.

Seizure semiology for 9:56 a.m. nodding and blinking. Similar behavioral changes were noted at 12:39 p.m. and at 3:20 p.m.  The seizure at 8:45 begins with nodding and blinking, and then jiggling from side to side.  The patient is with the nurse at the bedside.  The nurse is examining the patient who is responsive to the nurses intervention, although she is not speaking and does not appear to have recalled the event.

The event at 9:09 on the morning of the 30th was characterized by amnesia. The patient stated that she did not recall the physician, had not seen her before, although she asked appropriate questions and could form new memories

Heart rate 72 bpm.

IMPRESSION:  This 3-day continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
1. No epileptiform discharges of any nature.
2. An otherwise normal background.
3. Multiple different behavioral spells, sometimes with staring, sometimes with psychomotor slowing, sometimes with nodding and blinking, but never with epileptiform activity, despite the clear change in patient's sensorium.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are congruent with the previous EEG monitoring, which did not identify an epileptiform characteristic to this patient's events.

__________________________


