AGE: 72 y.o.
SEX: male
DATE OF STUDY: 10/06/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Inpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, Awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1467
HISTORY:
72 y.o. male with a past history of HTN, HLD, and atrial fibrillation referred for routine EEG for TIA.
MEDICATIONS: LOSARTAN, DILTIAZEM, XARELTO, ASA SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a suboptimally organized symmetric mixture of alpha, theta, and beta frequencies with excess admixed delta. There are fragments of a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and further diffuse background slowing are seen.
There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles and K-complexes present during Stage II sleep.
Slow wave sleep is not captured. There is mild generalized slowing.
There is abundant left hemispheric polymorphic slowing. There is frequent right parasagittal polymorphic slowing. There is frequent bifrontal polymorphic, at times rhythmic slowing at 1 Hz for runs <5 seconds.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation : Hyperventilation is not performed.
Photic Stimulation : Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal Awake and asleep routine EEG due to:
Mild generalized slowing with excess of delta frequencies
Suboptimal organization of the background
Abundant left hemispheric polymorphic slowing
Frequent right parasagittal polymorphic slowing
Frequent bifrontal polymorphic, at times rhythmic slowing at 1 Hz for runs <5 seconds
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings are indicative of multifocal cerebral dysfunction.
There is evidence of left hemispheric dysfunction, which is more prominent than right parasagittal dysfunction and bifrontal cerebral dysfunction . These findings are superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction . At times the bifrontal slowing is rhythmic, which is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that can be seen, most commonly, in the setting of a toxic-metabolic encephalopathy, but also with deep structural lesions or
increased intracranial pressure.




