CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 13-day-old infant, born at 25 weeks to mother, who was HIV-positive with toxicology positive for cocaine.  The infant had prolonged cardiopulmonary event on April 1, 2015, lasting over 50 minutes with bradycardia and desaturation, requiring re-intubation and subsequent desaturation.  Chest compressions required earlier in the day.  Now with eye flutter.
MEDICATIONS:  Caffeine.
INTRODUCTION:  One-hour digital video EEG was performed in Neonatal ICU using the neonatal montage.  Impedance; the baby had occasional eye movements and occasional leg movements.  The child was suctioned during the EEG.  The EEG does appear to capture sleep and more active state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This EEG demonstrates features typical for an infant with such extreme prematurity.  Some sections of the record demonstrate testing alternans or testing discontinuity with periods of suppression, no more than 10 seconds in duration.  There are sections of the record with shifting asymmetries and with suctioning, there may have been a bit more attenuation on the right.  Suctioning of the baby also produced eye flutter.  Although, the infant is only 27 weeks' gestation, there are some sections of the record with delta and overlying beta frequency activity, compatible with delta brushes.  When the infant is motorically active, the EEG is typically continuous with a higher amplitude delta pattern and without shifting asymmetries.
Notable in this record are brief bursts lasting 3-5 seconds in duration, which are associated with 4 and 14 hertz activity.  These bursts did not appear to be associated with any of the patient's involuntary movements.  The bursts are most prominent at T3 with a positivity at T3 and are sometimes picked up in the left eye movement channels.  Reviewing the video, only on 1 occasion this infant had eye movements in association with this, although the infant does have eye movement or eye flutter at other times without pathological discharges.
Heart rate 150 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This 1 hour bedside ICU record for this infant is remarkable for,
An overall developmental pattern appropriate for gestational age.
Sharp waves noted in either hemisphere, as can be seen in this age group.
Shifting asymmetries, but without sustained focality
An electrographic discharge with positivity at T3 without clear clinical correlate, which may represent a brief electrographic seizure in a premature infant.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Given the gravity of this patient's medical issues today, the overall background is encouraging.  The brief, electrically positive discharges noted in this record may be part of an acute response to the anoxic insult.  Seizures were not sustained and no prolonged clinical seizures
were identified.  These findings were discussed with the neonatal care team.  Clinical and electrographic followup was suggested.
__________________________





