CLINICAL HISTORY:  48 year old female found down with a PEA code on the 28th of March, shocked a total of 3 times, then having a second PEA code for 22 minute and a third one for 50 minutes.  By the time she had arrived, she was cooled and now she is having myoclonic jerks.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, Depakote, Midazolam, Heparin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Myoclonic jerks.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive and having jerks. No activating procedures were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely low attenuated background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or normal frontocentral beta.  Patient had no normal sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Throughout the recording, there are frequent frontally predominant and right more than left sharp waves which appeared to start and decrease in frequency for about 2-10 seconds with some minimal spread to the left hemisphere.  During these discharges, the patient appears to move and it is difficult to be clear of the precise locations of the discharges.  In between these discharges, there is diffuse attenuation and cortical suppression in the EEG.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Frequent bilateral frontally predominant discharges with some right-sided asymmetry.
Evidence of diffuse cortical attenuation in between the bursts.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cortical dysfunction and attenuation in addition to frequent myoclonic seizures which appears to have a bilateral frontal onset and lateral right-sided predominance.  It is possible that the known left cortical stroke is causing this asymmetric appearance.
The presence of these discharges after a posthypoxic event carries a poor prognosis.  The lower attenuation is likely due to diffuse cortical dysfunction, however, there may be some influence due to the sedation medications.



