History:	81 year old man with metastatic melanoma status post recent right frontal
craniotomy, now presents with confusion and aphasia.
Medications:	Keppra, Ativan 2 mg IVP, phenytoin load
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~18 hours from ~11 AM on 12/24/2013 till ~ 5 AM
on 12/25/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing
raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and
changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the
attending neurologist.   The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to
screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  There is
fragmented 8 Hz PDR observed over the left hemisphere with weak AP gradient over the left.
Additional polymorphic irregular theta and delta activity is noted over the left.  There is no clear
PDR or AP gradient over the right.  The background over the right consists of a mixture of
polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude theta and delta activity.  There are clear sleep-wake
cycles.  Sleep is characterized by sleep-spindles-like waveforms, fragments of K-complexes,
increase in the degree of diffuse delta activity and disappearance of EMG artifact.
A single poorly localized right hemispheric seizure is captured at ~ 11:20 am.  It lasts ~ 4 minutes.
It is characterized by gradual appearance of rhythmic right hemispheric delta activity.  Video
review does not demonstrate any clear clinical correlate.
All of the leads are disconnected from ~ 11:30 AM till ~ 1:30 PM.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, one, right hemispheric, poorly localized
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 18-hour video EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, focal moderate
right hemispheric slowing and at least one focal right hemispheric seizure. Diffuse slowing is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Focal right
hemispheric slowing and seizure indicate focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology and

is consistent with patient's history of metastatic cerebral disease.  These findings were conveyed to
the neurology consult team and the primary team.


