History:	78 year old woman status post SAH.
Medications:	none listed
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from 10/16/2014 till 10/17/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower
waveforms and lower voltages over the left.  The background over the right consists of mixture of
polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Additionally, intermittent moderate-to-high amplitude right
frontal sharp waves are noted in the second half of the recording.  Maximal scalp negativity is over
F4  and F8 electrodes.  The background over the left, consists of attenuated slow polymorphic delta
activity.  Prominent triphasic waveforms are seen during periods of stimulation, right>left.  No
normal sleep architecture is present.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Sharp waves, intermittent, right frontal, seen in the second half of the recording
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, severe, left hemispheric
Attenuation, left hemispheric
Triphasic waves, bilateral (R>L)
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 20-hour EEG due to (1) moderate diffuse slowing ; (2)
severe left hemispheric slowing and attenuation, (3) triphasic waveforms and (4) intermittent RIGHT
frontal epileptiform discharges that appear in the second half of the recording.  Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous
focal slowing and attenuation over the left indicates focal structural lesion in this region as well as a
possible fluid collection between the brain and a skull (such as subdural hematoma).  There is a
potential epileptogenic focus over the  right frontal region.  Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG
finding that can be seen in hepatic encephalopathy, uremia and anoxia.  Asymmetry of triphasics
waves is related to the asymmetry of the background.  No electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.






