History: 59 year old man with multiple complex partial and generalized convulsions earlier today.
Medications: Ativan 3 mg total, Dilantin load, Zosyn, methadone, Risperdal
Sedation: Lorazepam
EEG Type: Awake & asleep. Portable.
Technique: International 10·20 System; standard 21 electrodes
Description:
During maximal brief wakefulness the posterior dominant rhythm over the right reaches 8·8.5 Hz and weak anterior to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient appears over the right No PDR or AP gradient is present over the left. The background consists primarily of a mixture of theta and delta activity. Sleep spindles are noted.
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the left hemisphere, most pronounced over the temporal region. Continuous semi rhythmic and rhythmic sharp waves (quasi-PLEDs and PLEDs), up to 1.5 Hz, are noted over the left anterior temporal region. Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F7fT3 electrode.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Periodic discharges. Continuous, severe, left temporal, anterior. Quasi-PLEDs and PLEDs, up to 15 Hz
No electrographic seizures
Focal stowing, polymorphic, continuous. moderate, left hemispheric, most pronounced over the left
Diffuse slowing. polymorph c continuous, mild, mild-to-moderate
Interpretation:
This Is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 23 minute EEG due to mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing; focal left hemispheric slowing (most pronounced over the left temporal re ion), and continuous quasi-periodic and periodic left anterior temporal epileptiform discharges. Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which Is etiologically nonspecific. Focal left hemispheric slowing and left temporal epileptiform discharges indicate focal abnormality, possibly structural in etiology, and may represent post-ictal phenomenon. No electrographic seizures are present. These findings were conveyed to the primary team. Patient will be placed on long term continuous EEG monitoring.



