History:	81 YR OLD FEMALE, DX.ABNORMALITY OF GAIT,  CEREBROVASCULAR
DISEASE, HYPER PARATHYROID, TREMOR, GENERALIZED MUSCLE WEAKNESS
Medications:	LIPITOR, BENADRYL, LOPRESSOR, PERCOCET, DILANTIN, PLAVIX,
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and
subtemporal chain and EKG electrodes, awake
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  At times there is diffuse attenuation see for 1-2 seconds.  Diffuse, frontally maximal
sharp waves with triphasic morphology are present at times during the recording.  These waveforms
demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Nearly continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal at T3 with
loss of faster frequencies.  Nearly continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right frontal
region at C4/F4.  Occasional focal sharp waves are present in the right central and frontal region,
with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at C4/F4.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent, right frontal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, left temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, right frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  epileptiform discharges in the right frontal and central
region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region. In addition
there is  intermittent focal slowing in the left midtemporal and right frontal region.  This finding is
indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in
origin.  Lastly, there is diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are
etiologically non-specific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. In this case the
triphasic waves suggest a metabolic component to the encephalopathy.


