CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 46-year-old man with a history of sleep apnea, anxiety, depression, who presents for involuntary head movements from side to side lasting 1 or 2 seconds several times per day.
MEDICATIONS:  Omeprazole, clonazepam, Advair.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 9 to 9.5 Hz in frequency and 40-60 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is presence of low-amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  The patient had intermittent head jerking from side-to-side during the recording without any ictal change on EEG.  There are movement artifact and muscle artifacts distributed diffusely excluding central derivation.  There are frequent bursts of left anterior and mid temporal slowing at F7/T3, in wakefulness consisting of 3 to 3.5 Hz delta frequency lasting from 1-2 seconds.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response.  Heart rate was 70 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to left temporal slowing seen during wakefulness.  Intermittent head movements were captured during the recording without any ictal change on EEG.  No epileptiform abnormalities were identified in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  A left temporal slowing is suggestive of a structural abnormality in the left hemisphere or left temporal dysfunction.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  Intermittent head movements without any ictal change on EEG suggestive of this being probably subcortical in origin.  No epileptiform abnormalities were seen in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  If seizures are a clinical concern, a repeat EEG capturing the sleep or a 24-hour ambulatory EEG may be helpful.



