CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 42-year-old, left-handed, cognitively impaired woman with exacerbation of  drop attacks, drooling, and excessive sedation attributed to  Zyprexa.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote, Neurontin, Serentil, and Topamax.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient has multiple episodes of head rocking during the recording and then removes her electrodes.
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP: During this 24 hour section, there were two drop events reported: one at approximately 3:00 PM and the other at 8:00 AM.  Reviewing the extensive files, these behaviors cannot be easily identified.
The waking background remains abnormal.  Following the administration of Ativan on the 15th, there is an increase in somnolence followed by an alerting response with a suggestion of an alpha rhythm and a background with theta.  In this portion of the record, the drop attacks decreased dramatically, with only two clinical drop attacks reported.  Despite this, there are frequent bursts of frontally predominant high amplitude poly spike and slow wave activity with bursts lasting 3 to 7 and even 10 seconds in duration. In addition to the generalized, frontally predominant bursts, there are also focal bursts of spike and slow wave activity some of which demonstrate an occipital predominant left or right.  These bursts are not as sustained as those from the frontal region.  There are portions of the record when the patient is drowsy where there is a suggestion of temporal wicket.  The overnight recording captured sleep with an alpha and theta pattern and slower, higher amplitude spike and slow wave activity, but without all of the typical wave forms of sleep.
HR:  78 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Slow spike and wave activity with poly spike and slow wave activity and generalized spike and slow activity ranging from 1.6 Hz to 5 Hz.
Occipitally predominant spike and slow wave activity.
Generalized background slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This patient had clinical atonic seizures associated with these discharges in the initial portion of the record, but not in later portions of the record. This may be due to administration of benzodiazepines, Topiramate, or cessation of Zyprexa.




