CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 25-year-old man with status post resection of a left parietal tumor, radiation that presents with recurrent seizures and multiple micro bleeds here and status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, phenobarbital, Vimpat, Versed and propofol.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed for 48 hours using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while sedated and unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  There is overall burst suppression background with bursts at the beginning of the record occurring every 12-15 seconds and the bursts being asymmetric and lasting about 4 seconds.  This burst suppression pattern continues to be seen throughout the recording with bursts  sometimes being slightly longer and the interburst interval being shorter, but around 4 p.m., the propofol started being titrated down, tapered off slowly.  About 9:30 p.m. there appears to be a more continuous EEG pattern seen again which consists of diffuse delta slowing with some frontal theta bursts seen intermittently.  This pattern continues to improve in terms of having more theta frequencies occur in the frontal and central regions.  For the next 24 hours, this pattern continues to improve in amplitude and at times there is some frontal sharply contoured discharges that appear to be maximal in the prefrontal region at FP1.  There is no clear evolution to them.  There is no clear seizures seen.
Heart rate: 86.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to burst suppression followed by generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology, but may be due, at least in part in this case, to medication effect.  No seizures were seen.  The frontal lead sharply contoured pattern is unclear significance, but does not appear to be epileptiform.



