CLINICAL HISTORY: 33 year old right handed gentleman with a single seizure in childhood, recurrent auras characterized by an indescribable feeling from age 14. Also has a feelings with a funny feeling jerk and loss of train of thought for a second. Recent concussion and recent seizure associated with sleep deprivation.
MEDICATIONS: Percocet, Valium.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed. This is an awake and asleep record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a well-defined 9 Hz alpha rhythm which is slightly higher in amplitude on the left than the right. There is occasional, slightly irregular slowing in the temporal regions, notched, 5 Hz activity is noted in the frontal region which is typically symmetric and bilateral. Features of drowsiness could an increase in background stowing. Vertex waves are identified in stage I sleep. Hyperventilation is performed with good effort producing bursts of rhythmic frontal activity which is somewhat sharply contoured. Photic stimulation elicits bilateral driving. The primary abnormalities in this record are frontal or frontocentral sharp and slow waves. This occurs on rare occasions. It can be differentiated from the rhythmic flat top shaped 5 Hz activity in the background. It is associated with well-defined higher amplitude sharp wave. During photic stimulation, there is also a burst of notched rhythmic theta frequency activity but not a definitive generalized spike and wave complex.
HR: N/A
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Rare, right frontal sharp waves.
2. Shifting slowing.
3. Small degree of background disorganization.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This individual does demonstrate some normal variants but there is a definitive sharp wave observed in the right frontal region. A potentially generalized mechanism for seizures may have been overlooked given the findings described on one occasion during hyperventilation. In this individual who is currently postictal, a follow-up study may be helpful to more clearly define all potential underlying epileptiform pathology for this individual.



