History:	20YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O SZ ONSET AT AGE 2, SZ FREE UNTIL
AGE 10 THEN BEGAN TO HAVE SZ DURING SLEEP EVERY NIGHT X 7 YRS
AFTER BEING DC'D FROM TRILEPTAL. PT REPORTS TONGUE BITING,
BLADDER INCONT AND NO RECALL OF SZ EVENTS.NOW ADMIT WITH MULTI
Medications:	Ativan, Phenobarbital, Lamotrigine
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, drowsy
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
disorganized high voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to
posterior gradient of frequencies.  Stage 1 and 2 sleep architecture can be seen.
No focal slowing is present.  Frequent multifocal spikes and sharp waves. The majority of spikes,
polyspikes and sharp waves are centrally at Cz, C4 and C3. Otherwise multifocal spikes are seen in
both temporal, parietal and frontal regions.  There were 4 clinical seizures during the EEG.
Clinically the patient opens her eye with a tonic upward gaze followed by periodic slow mouth
frowning that slows down in frequency while her both arm may slowly go up in front of her.  The
EEG reveals a frontocentral beta frequency discharge that has is difficult to lateralize. This
discharge spreads centrally and T5 rhythmic sharps are seen followed by a more generalized spread
with a slight decrease in frequency.  Then it suddenly stops. The seizures last 39-52 seconds. After
the seizure there is a generalized delta slowing for seconds followed by a return to the above
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  Hr was 90
Summary of Findings:
Spikes and sharp waves, frequent multifocal, Mainly central
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Seizure, occasional central
Disorganization
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep 1.5 hour EEG because of four a clinical and
electrographic seizure arising from the fronto central region (not clearly lateralized). In addition
there are  abundant multifocal epileptiform discharges, which are epileptogenic.  Moderate diffuse
background slowing and disorganization is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically nonspecific.
described background





