:
History:	24 year old man with a history of seizures.
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Bilateral AP gradient is present, better formed over the right
hemisphere.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  During drowsiness, the background slows to
central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm
attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate
voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.  BETS (benign
epileptiform transients of sleep) or SSS (small sharp spikes) are seen over the left during drowsiness/
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is present over the left temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Occasionally, left temporal delta activity becomes
rhythmic at ~3 Hz and occurs in up to 30 second runs.  This activity appears abruptly, does not
evolve temporally or spatially and ceases abruptly.  Frequent moderate-to-high amplitude left
anterior temporal sharp waves are captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F7<T1
electrodes.  These discharges may occur in brief (several seconds) runs of at ~1 Hz.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
BETS (benign epileptiform transients of sleep) or SSS (small sharp spikes)
TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, left temporal
Sharp waves, frequent, left temporal, anterior, F7/T1
Beta, excessive
Sleep, stage 2
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left temporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 21-minute EEG due to continuous moderate left
temporal slowing that is at times rhythmic (TIRDA) and frequent left anterior temporal epileptiform
discharges. These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the
left temporal region.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as
benzodiazepines or barbiturates.





