CLINICAL HISTORY:   48 year old male requiring aortic arch replacement.  The patient has a past medical history of stroke.
MEDICATIONS:  Sevoflurane, Vecuronium, Propofol, Lidocaine, Solu-Medrol, Fentanyl, Phenylephrine
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The carotid endarterectomy montage is utilized.  The patient is cooled during the EEG with a recorded brain temperature of 34.1.  Pulse of 68.  BP 68/61.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins, the patient has received anesthesia.  The EEG demonstrates a relatively symmetric pattern at 8:10 a.m.   With the use of anesthetic medications, there is both ICU artifact as the patient is moved about.  There are also some subtle asymmetries with some higher amplitude slowing on the left and more of a lower voltage pattern on the right.  At 9:17 in the morning, the EEG demonstrates a bit of discontinuity.  There are brief attenuations.  There are intermittent attenuations noted at 10 a.m.  By 10:07 a.m., this is transitioned to a burst suppression pattern.  At 10:33, the EEG is a bit more continuous.  Around this time, BP 88/55.  BP in this procedure is low at a maximum of 100/57.  There are some technical challenges including the artifact from the sternotomy.  Lung bypass is initiated around 11 a.m.  At this point, the EEG demonstrates amplitude asymmetry with the right a little lower than the left but is continuous.  At 11:03, the EEG is compromised by artifact but there seems to have been a change in the level of anesthesia or the use of hypothermia, and the EEG becomes suppressed.  Cooling starts at 11 a.m. and rapidly produces a suppressed pattern.  At 11:15, there is very scant low voltage delta but the EEG is by and large suppressed.  The EKG lead is not functional.  The EEG is recorded with the sensitivity of 3.  There is very low voltage delta noted, some of which may be cerebral, which is potentially just an artifact given the slowness of the delta.  The head temperature is recorded to reach 20 degrees at 11:15.  Circulatory arrest is employed and circulatory arrest is recorded off at 12:21.
By 1:09:27, there is a return with low voltage cerebral activity.  This follows a comment by the tech at 1:02 that the heart is open and that re-warming of the body actively began at 12:47 and the head passively at that time.  The re-warming is gradually followed by the appearance of lower voltage, mixed delta and theta about 15 minutes later with a more well-defined discontinuous pattern first appearing at 1:05 and then pattern is rich in theta, some beta activity.  The EEG is continuous at 1:17 and remains continuous.  The amplitude asymmetry is noted.  As the level of anesthesia changes, amplitude asymmetry fluctuates a bit.   The EEG concludes after the patient has come off bypass and the patient is re-warmed.  An anesthetic pattern is noted.
HR:    90 bpm
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  EEG monitoring during this aortic arch repair demonstrated an approximately 2 hour period of suppression of cerebral activity congruent with the cooling of the body.



