REASON FOR STUDY:  Recurrent seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 19-year-old woman with Lyme disease, gastroparesis, episodes of staring spells and confusion.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Toradol, oxycodone, Lovenox, Protonix.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software along the patient's alarm events as well as nurses notes were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some electrode artifact during the episodes as described below.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is a normal amount of frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures were not performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  None.
EVENTS:  The patient had 3 events during the admission.  The first one occurred at 7:00 p.m. after the doctor asked her to raise and lower her hands, and breathe heavily.  The patient started complaining of a headache, later ringing in the ears and became unresponsive with the eyes twitching and rolling backwards with forced eye closure, and some trembling.  The patient also had complaints of some right-sided numbness before the episode started.  The patient remained unresponsive to verbal motor commands until about 7:06:28 p.m.  She had a second event at 8:53:40 p.m. with a similar presentation of eyes rolling back and becoming unresponsive to verbal commands, and then trembling lasting until 8:58 p.m.  At the end she cried just as she did in the first event.  Then she had a third event occurring at 9:53:08 p.m. lasting until 9:58:47 p.m. again with eye fluttering,  trembling and following commands, and afterwards crying.  During all 3 events even though the last 1 there was some substantial electrode artifact and muscle artifact there was no clear EEG changes.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Normal awake and sleep EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a normal awake and sleep EEG.  The 3 episodes which were described above had no EEG correlate and clinically appeared to be consistent with her typical spells.  The lack of any EEG abnormalities during the event is diagnostic of a psychogenic nonepileptic event.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.



