CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 24-year-old male with a history of epilepsy since age 11, admitted for increased seizure activity.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote and Phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the Long-Term EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient is on multiple doses of Ativan and Phenobarbital and was sleeping throughout much of the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG is symmetric with diffuse beta activity.  No focal features or epileptiform discharges were observed during wakefulness and deep sleep, however, two episodes in sleep were observed during arousal with some focal findings.
EPISODE-RELATED EVENTS: On October 7, 2003 at 22:26, while the patient was sleeping, he suddenly began rolling in bed and seemed to want to sit up.  He was moving his right hand around his head.  His left hand was not involved with any movement during the episode.  This lasted for less than one minute and the patient fell back to sleep. Several seconds prior to the episode there was some slowing with theta activity observed coming from the right temporal and right central areas.  This was followed by a superimposed background with muscle movement artifact.  The essential theta slow activity persisted for several seconds after the patient went back to sleep.  No epileptiform discharges were observed.
The second episode occurred around 00:31 on October 8, 2003. The patient was sleeping and the EEG background was symmetric with low voltage, diffuse beta activity.  At 00:31:27, some focal theta and delta slow activity was observed from the central, mainly from the right hemisphere.  At 00:31:46, the patient began to move and tried to sit up. His right hand moved toward his head without involving his left hand.  The episode lasted less than one minute and the patient fell back to sleep.  The right focal slowing lasted about 20 seconds more after the behavior was over.  Again, no epileptiform discharges were observed. The patient’s heart rate did not change before, during or after the episodes compared to his baseline heart rate.
HR: 78 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.	Transient focal slowing from the right central and temporal regions.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This video EEG demonstrates two episodes with associated EEG findings.  The behavior in both of these episodes involved the right arm with serial type movements.  However, the EEG finding in the right hemisphere only showed some slow activity changes.  Continuous EEG monitoring may be able to reveal further information.
Long-Term Monitoring, 10/8/02 at 08:56:25 to 10/09/03 at 06:51:21
CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 24-year-old male with a history of epilepsy since age 11, admitted for increased seizure activity.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote, Keppra and Phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the Long-Term EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient is sedated and sleeping throughout much of the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG is symmetric with diffuse beta activity.  Two events were recorded and captured by the video camera.  The first occurred at about 9:00 AM on October 8 and the other at 12:57 PM on October 8.  The patient seems to want to get up, but no seizures are recorded.  The EEG did not show significant change.  Rare, right or central/temporal hemispheric slow waves are identified.
HR: 78 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.	Rare, subtle focal slowing in the right central and temporal regions.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: No events were recorded in this tracing.  The focal findings in this tracing may be partially responsible for the mechanism of this patient’s epilepsy.  Continuous long-term EEG monitoring may be able to provide further information.




