History:	54 YO LH FEMALE PRESENTED TO ED POST ICTAL SEIZURE. PT FOUND ON
THE GROUND AND CONFUSED BY CAREGIVER.RETURNED TO BASELINE
AFTER 30 MIN.
PMHX: SZ, MDD, HYPOTHYROID, HX OF AED NON-COMPLIANCE
Medications:	SYNTHROID, DEPACON X2, LOVENOX
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep, photic
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present. During maximal wakefulness, the background consist of
a mixture of low to moderate amplitude polymorphic delta and theta activity.  Background activity
was characterized by diffuse delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to
posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left temporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent independent moderate to high amplitude bitemporal sharp
waves with after going slow waves are noted, worse on the left side.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR 60
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Focal slowing, polymorphic, left temporal
Sharp-and-slow-wave complexes, frequent, bilateral (L>R) temporal, independent
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  intermittent
focal slowing in the left temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically non-specific.  frequent independent epileptiform discharges in the bitemporal
regions, worse on the left side were noted.   These findings are indicative of a potentially
epileptogenic focus in these regions.  Clinical correlation is recommended. No electrographic


