REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizure.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  An 18-year-old woman with a history of seizures since age 2, seizure free until age 10, began to have seizures during sleep every night.  Reports tongue biting, bladder incontinence, and no recall of events.
MEDICATIONS:  Carbatrol.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were performed including photic stimulation and hyperventilation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The records reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontal central beta.  The patient is recorded in wakefulness and sleep.
Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
Abnormal discharges:
Frequent focal sharp waves seen at F7/T4 at times with a more posterior component at T6 and sometimes more of anterior component at FP2.  These occurred frequently during wakefulness and sleep.
Focal sharp waves seen rarely at F7/T3 during wakefulness and sleep.
Seizures:  One seizure occurred at 9:48:10 a.m. where the patient suddenly while asleep opened her eyes and appears to be startled.  She moves her eyes to the right and turns her head to the right and starts moaning.  Next, her right arm starts shaking back and forth and she continues to do this for some seconds until her shoulders start shaking and then she starts shaking the left arm.  Next, the head moves to the left and then she starts moving side to side while moaning.  At this point the left hand appears to be having some automatisms and she starts arching her back until the seizure ends.
Electrographically at the onset of the seizure there appeared to be a bilateral prefrontal discharge which only causes the left hemisphere to become attenuated and muscle artifact starts forming.  At that point central alpha discharge is noticed, specifically a CZ, which then involves into a diffuse theta and delta slowing seen in both hemispheres.  As the patient's head moves side to side, the rhythmicity continues to evolve and suddenly stops.  Afterwards there is diffuse slowing.
Heart rate:  108.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to right, much more than left, anterior temporal sharp waves and a single seizure of unclear onset, but appears to be possibly left prefrontal with quick spread centrally.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures possibly arising from either anterior temporal lobe or the frontal lobe.



