History:	83 year old woman with a history of dementia, aphasia, worsening quadriparesis,
now presents with worsening left facial weakness.
Medications:	Ativan for MRI
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, asleep, lethargic
Description:
During brief maximal arousal the background consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude theta
activity.  Patient is drowsy or asleep throughout the majority of the recording.  At that time the
background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity with periods of
discontinuity seen during deeper stages of sleep.  Sleep-spindle like waveforms are captured even
during the periods of stimulation, posteriorly displaced vertex waves are noted.
There is paucity of faster frequencies over the left, especially over the left temporal region.  No
clear epileptiform discharges are noted but occasional independent sharply contoured waveforms
are noted over the T3 and P3 leads.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, moderate, left hemispheric, especially over the
Sharp transients, occasional, left, independent, over T3 and P3
No epileptiform discharges
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 22 minute portable EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing
that is more pronounced over the left (especially left temporal region). This finding is indicative of
moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  However, presents of
sleep-spindle-like waveforms during periods of arousals suggests that some degree of slowing is
medication induced or patient  is excessively drowsy.  Intermittent focal slowing is indicative of
focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  The
presence of occasional left temporal and left parietal sharply contoured waveforms is of uncertain
\





