CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 37-year-old right-handed female presents in the ER with history of seizures and loss of consciousness with urinary incontinence and tongue biting.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for HIV/AIDS and seizure.
MEDICATIONS:  Acyclovir, Bactrim, and gabapentin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures short periods of wakefulness through drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 8-8.5 Hz in frequency, 20-30 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 5-6 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during short periods of wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is presence of low-amplitude diffuse beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of posterior dominant rhythm and slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact noted during most period of this recording.  Heart rate was 100 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity seen in short periods of wakefulness and slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to metabolic, toxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Diffuse slowing can also be seen after generalized seizures.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepine, barbiturates, or could be due to anxiety or hypothyroidism.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



