History:	52 year old man with a history of a liver transplant in 2011 now presents with
episodes characterized by flushing lights and confusion.  A spot EEG on 1/23/2015
showed focal status epilepticus.
Medications:	Keppra, Ativan, Vimpat
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~13 hours from 1/23/2015 till 1/24/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Awake background is characterized by low amplitude 10 Hz alpha activity with preserved AP
gradient.  PDR is subtly slower over the left occipital region.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.
During sleep, symmetrical vertex waves and sleep spindles are captured.
There are frequent clinical and electrographic focal seizures early in the recording (status
epilepticus).  Their frequency gradually decreases and last clear seizure is captured at ~ 1:49 AM
on 1/24/2015.  Seizures start with very low amplitude fast activity over the O1 electrode. This
activity rapidly spreads to O2 electrode.  It also increases in amplitude, decreases in frequency and
spreads over the left parietal and posterior temporal region.  Gradually, there is diffuse semi-
rhythmic monomorphic theta activity.  Seizures on average last ~ 2 minutes.  A good seizure
example is at 6:54 PM on 1/23/2015.  There is no push button for any of these events.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, left occipital, early in the recording
Seizure, frequent, left occipital, last seizure at ~1:49 AM
Beta, excessive
Focal slowing, polymorphic, marked, left occipital
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 13 -hour continuous video EEG due to mild left occipital slowing and
frequent left occipital seizures (and frank focal status epilepticus early in the recording). This finding
is indicative of an epileptogenic likely structural focus in the  left occipital region.  Last clear seizure is captured at ~ 1:49 AM on 1/24/2015  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the
medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  These findings were conveyed to the
primary team.






