CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 57-year-old right-handed gentleman who presents with a past medical history of diabetes, peripheral vascular disease, hypertension status post tracheostomy, status post tracheotomy secondary to difficult herniation when he was admitted to the hospital on 11/05/2012 due to swelling tongue and soft palate inflammation.  Patient was readmitted due to altered mental status.

MEDICATIONS:  Insulin, Klonopin, Dilaudid.

INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed at the bedside using the standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to T1 and T2 electrodes and 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulations were not performed.  This tracing captures patient in during wakefulness and through stage II sleeps, patient was agitated at times.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 8.5-9 Hz in frequency, 20-30 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is presence of low amplitude, diffuse beta activity which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage 1 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves.  Brief stage 2 sleep was captured, characterized by the presence of sleep spindles.  Heart rate was 80-85 beats per minutes, regular.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity seen during wakefulness.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to toxic, metabolic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy alternatively could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepine and barbiturates or could be due to anxiety or hyperthyroidism.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures are identified in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat sleep deprived EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



