CLINICAL HISTORY:  36 year old woman with seizures beginning at age 4 in setting of fever Had normal developmental milestones up until age 4, only began declining cognitively after her first seizure; history of developmental delay. Concern for worsening cognitive decline, father says she’s not herself and has been staring. Patient also has nighttime seizures. Drop attacks now rare.
MEDICATIONS:  Zonisamide.
INTRODUCTION:  This is an ongoing continuous digital video EEG monitoring with seizure and spike detection.  During this 24-hour section of the record, the patient was not aware of any seizures.  The patient had an unusual mental status and with some practice pushed buttons, but no clearly defined clinical seizures.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Day 3, 06/17 to 06/18:
The overall EEG demonstrates a markedly slow background with more of a rhythmic theta pattern.  The pattern in wakefulness has few of the normal developmental milestones of an awake EEG. Sleep was very disrupted for this patient and includes a lower voltage, featureless pattern, with low voltage subtle spindle activity.
Epileptiform Detections:  In addition to frontally predominant spike and wave and polyspike and wave complexes, there are also some lower-voltage more discreet multi-phased sharp waves from the left temporal region.
Electrographic seizures:  None.
Heart Rate: 60 bpm
Day 4, 06/18 to 06/19:
Background is diffusely slow – rhythmic theta and delta, unchanged from previous days.
Sleep remains disrupted and sleep pattern is more monomorphic and slow.
Epileptiform Detections: intermittent discrete spike and slow wave complexes maximal at the midline as well as more spikes seen in both the right and left hemispheres. There are frontal spike and wave complexes, unilateral spike wave and some polyspike wave discharges, as well as lower voltage spikes, seen primarily in sleep.
Electrographic seizures: None.
Heart Rate: 60 bpm
Continued
IMPRESSION:
This is a 4 day continuous monitoring video EEG session remarkable for:
Two tonic clonic seizures, with slightly different electrographic patterns.  Not localized by scalp EEG.
Generalized background slowing.
Complex epileptiform activity, including frontally predominant spike and wave activity, isolated spike and wave activity, and focal sharps and spikes.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This patient's tonic-clonic seizures have been recorded.  No additional seizures were identified.  No drop attacks were recorded.
Absence seizures have not been clearly identified for this patient, with profound psychomotor slowing who spends much of her time in bed and is not very responsive with the nursing team.





