History:	An unknown female admitted with a large intracerebral hemorrhage.
Medications:	Keppra, Versed
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, asleep, lethargic
Description:
There is right-to-left asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The background over the right
consists of polymorphic poorly modulated 7-8 Hz theta activity posteriorly, excess polymorphic theta
and delta activity and poor AP gradient.  The background over the left lacks PDR and AP gradient.
The background over the left consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity with
delta activity most pronounced posteriorly.  Additionally, frequent, left posterior quadrant spikes and
polyspikes are captured.  At times they become rhythmic, with a repetition rate of ~ 1 Hz (example,
~10:23 am).  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T5, P3 and O1 leads.  Sleep spindles and K-
complexes are captured.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Spikes and sharp waves, frequent, left posterior, and polyspikes, sometimes periodic
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
No electrographic seizures
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric, especially over the posterior
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal awake and asleep 24-minute portable EEG due to (1) mild-to-moderate
diffuse slowing; (2) focal continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing that is especially
pronounced over the posterior quadrant and (3) frequent left posterior quadrant epileptiform
discharges that are frequently accompanied by polyspikes and occasionally become periodic (at ~ 1
Hz).  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing a focal structural lesion over the left.  There is a
highly epileptogenic focus over the left posterior quadrant.  These findings were conveyed to the
primary team. Patient will be placed on continuous EEG monitoring.




