History:	54 year old woman who presents status post cardiac arrest.
Medications:	Versed, keppra, Dilantin and phenobarbital IV started in the second half of the
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 4/20/2015 till 4/21/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is is no PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of moderate amplitude relatively
monomorphic diffuse 10-11 Hz alpha activity admixed with occasional theta and delta activity.  By
the end of the recording there is gradual voltage attenuation and  additional low amplitude bursts
of fast activity and periods of discontinuity are captured.  There is continuous subtle underriding
delta activity over the left posterior-central region.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
Frequent, sometimes very prolonged (up to 25 minutes), left centroparietal seizures are captured
early in the recording.  There is no clinical correlate.  Seizures stop by the end of the recording -
after increased in Versed doses and additional of  phenobarbital.  Seizures start with subtle
rhythmic left centroparietal sharply contoured delta activity that increases in amplitude and evolves
into ~ 2.5 Hz sustain activity seen over the the left centroparietal occipital region.
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, left, centroparietal - resolves by the end of the recording
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 24-hour EEG due to diffuse and worsening background
slowing and left parietocentral focal status epilepticus that resolves by the end of the recording
epoch (after increase in Versed dose and addition of phenobarbital).  Diffuse slowing indicates
diffuse cerebral dysfunction that in this case at least partially related to the medication effect.
There is focal epileptogenic focus over the left parietocentral region.  These findings were
conveyed to the primary team.





