CONDITION OF RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The EEG was reviewed at least once in 24 hours.  Spike detector and seizure detector were activated.  The patient was equipped with the event button.  Medical staff notes and nursing notes were reviewed.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 31-year-old woman with a history of seizures from approximately three-four years age until approximately 12 years of age treated with Dilantin that time.  About a year ago, she started having generalized tonic-clonic convulsions.  The patient was sleep deprived from February 7th until February 8th.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications:  Keppra off.  Lamotrigine 25 mg in the morning and then off.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well-formed and modulated moderate amplitude 9.5 to 10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During sleep symmetrical vertex waves, sleep spindles, K-complexes, slow wave sleep, and several epochs of REM sleep are captured.  Occasional bursts of polymorphic theta and delta are captured over the left anterior temporal region.  This activity is most pronounced during drowsiness.  No typical events were captured.
FINDINGS:
Occasional mild left anterior temporal slowing.
No typical events.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 24 hour continuous audio-video electroencephalogram  monitoring due to occasional mild left anterior temporal slowing.  This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  No typical events were captured.  The patient was sleep deprived overnight during this 24-hour recording



