CLINICAL HISTORY:   56 year old right handed woman with right MCA infarct about 6 months, right carotid stenosis.
MEDICATIONS:  Insulin, Famotidine, Cyanocobalamin, Lovenox, Gemfibrozil, Niacin, Metoprolol, Tylenol
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Photic stimulation was completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the activity is reasonably well organized from the left and sometimes reasonably well organized bilaterally.  There is a 10.5 Hz alpha rhythm. Most notable in this record are bursts of frontally predominant rhythmic or arrhythmic delta activity.  This has a much more generous field of spread in the right hemisphere, is higher amplitude, more sharply contoured, although without a definitive sharp wave, is a little slower in the left frontal region than the right.  Photic stimulation elicits bilateral driving.  By the close of the record, the bursts of the frontal delta are similar, but the bursts in the right frontal region are notched.
HR:    96 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Bursts of frontal delta most prominent in the right hemisphere, sharply contoured on the right.
Background slowing and disorganization.
Left temporal focal slowing.
Sharply contoured slowing with sharp waves on the left.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a frontal lobe process more significantly associated with a pathology in the right hemispheric, but with a bilateral representation.
At times, the bursts of activity on the right are sharply contoured.  There are bursts of shifting sign.
The overall background is relatively slow with alpha rhythm occasionally reaching 9 Hz. Photic stimulation does not significantly activate the record.  Hyperventilation accentuates the focal slowing from the left.  Heart rate 60-90 BPM.
The overall background is slower than previous EEGs, although shifting slowing was noted as in the 2004 EEG.  Previous EEGs have demonstrated left temporal sharp waves.



