History:	72 year old woman status post recent meningioma resection and stroke, now with
observed right sided twitching and change in mental status.

Of note, C3, C4 and Cz are at the site of incision.
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta
and delta activity that is higher in amplitude anteriorly.  Prominent continuous sharply contoured
moderate-to-high amplitude delta activity is noted over the bifrontal leads and Fz lead.  No normal
sleep architecture is present.
Prominent continuous sharply contoured moderate-to-high amplitude delta activity is noted over
the bifrontal leads and Fz lead.  Additional low amplitude fast activity is noted over the left frontal
region.  Subtle, low amplitude F3 spikes with aftergoing slow waves are observed.  Approximately
five seizures are captured.  Seizures start with increase in frequency, rhythmicity and amplitude of
left frontal (F3) spikes.  It is followed by appearance of rhythmic polymorphic ~ 8-9 Hz activity over
the right frontal region and right  anterior quadrant. Left frontal spikes then increase in frequency to
up 3-4 Hz.  Seizures last on average 35-45 seconds.  Some are associated with the right arm raise.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  A single EKG demonstrates heart rate
up to 120 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, bilateral frontal, moderate-to-severe
Breach artifact, left frontal
Spikes, frequent, left frontal
Seizure, bilateral (L>R) frontal, ~5 seizures, focal, ~35-45 sec each
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 22 minute EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing, moderate-to-severe focal
bifrontal focal slowing, frequent left frontal epileptiform discharges and ~5 brief focal seizures that
start over the left frontal region and rapidly spread to the right anterior quadrant.  Diffuse slowing is
etiologically nonspecific indicator of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Bifrontal focal slowing
indicates structural cerebral abnormality.  Breach rhythm is seen with a skull defect.  There is an
epileptogenic focus over the bifrontal, left>right, regions.  These findings were conveyed to the
primary team at the time of the recording and patient was placed on continuous EEG monitoring.



