CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 44-year-old woman with a past right basal ganglia intracerebral hemorrhage 4 years ago.  Patient admitted July 5th with large left basal ganglia hemorrhage, status post trach and PEG.  Evaluate today for intermittent unresponsiveness.  Family notes long history of episodic hypersomnolence.
MEDICATIONS:  Insulin, losartan, metoprolol, Norvasc, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not possible.  Impedances were under 5 kilohms with the exception of the T1-T2 electrodes.  The patient was quite somnolent throughout the EEG, but at 1 point was briefly arousable during the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal and includes a prominent asymmetry.  The right hemisphere is slow and disorganized, but in general, there is a 6-7 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, which does appear to be reactive to eye opening.  Occasional eye movements were noted.  The left hemisphere demonstrates more consistent arrhythmic delta with more disruption of faster frequency activity, although there are rare occasions in which there is some theta noted in the occipital regions.  Sharply contoured slowing was noted in the left hemisphere with variable phase reversals including at S7, T3, and T1.
Tactile Stimulation:  The patient on some occasions, produced an arousal with eye opening and spontaneous movements.
As the recording concluded and the technologist was finishing with the patient, the patient became a bit more arousable and interactive.
HEART RATE 72 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to,
Essentially continuous focal slowing with prominent arrhythmic delta activity in the left hemisphere, and disruption of faster frequency activity.
Sharply contoured delta in the left with phase reversal in the left mid and central temporal regions.
Moderately slow and disorganized pattern on the right with disrupted alpha on the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  the pattern described above is unusual.  The right hemisphere seems to be awake even when the patient is poorly responsive.  Tactile stimulation does produce an increase in faster frequency activity.  The hyper somnolent behavior is NOT a seizure.



