History:	62 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O CHANGE IN MENTAL STATUS,
AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR X 2 MOS. NOTED WITH SHAKING. PT POS. FOR
Medications:	ATIVAN GIVEN ON8/23/15 2:30 AM , HALDOL GIVEN FOR STUDY
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, lethargic
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Some intermittent superimposed frontal faster frequencies are seen best over the left
hemisphere.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta and attenuation of faster activity is present in the right anterior
temporal region.  A single seizure was captured during the EEG: The seizure commences with
rhythmic right anterior temporal T2 rhythmic theta discharge that slows down to theta while
increasing in amplitude and spreading to the midtemporal region.  The seizure last 1 minute and
39 seconds.  There was no clear clinical correlate, the patient remained in bed looking around
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  Hr was 90
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, single, electrographic, right temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right temporal, anterior, associated loss of faster
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  a single electrographic seizure arising from the right
anterior region.  These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region.  In addition
there is  continuous focal slowing and  in the right anterior temporal region.  This finding is
indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region. Lastly, there is moderate  diffuse background
slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate


