History:	60 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O SZ D/O. PT VERY VAGUE REGARDING
SZ HX. LAST SZ X 1 MONTH AGO. PMHX SIG FOR LT SIDED SKULL DEFECT.
PT HIT IN HEAD W/PIPE X 20 YRS AGO, SZ ARE S/P HEAD TRAUMA.
Medications:	GABAPENTIN, LAMOTRIGINE, TOPIRAMATE, TIAGABINE
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8.5-9 Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  There is an asymmetric 18-25Hz activity with increased amplitude
over the left hemisphere in the central and frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background
slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm
attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate
voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left central and temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  There is an asymmetry of beta activity with increased
amplitude compared to the right.  Occasional focal spike-and-wave discharge are present in the left
anterior temporal region, with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F7T3 but at times with a
more central and frontal field.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, occasional, left frontotemporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy likely arising from the left
anterior temporal region. In addition there is evidence of left anterior temporal focal structural
cerebral dysfunction which is consistent with the known trauma.  No seizures were seen.


