CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 59-year-old man who presented with acute confusional state followed by 1 episode of seizures in the emergency room on 08/19/2013.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, midazolam, Protonix.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using the standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness through stage II sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 8-8.5 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 7-7.5 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is a small amount of low amplitude diffuse beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage I sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as presence of vertex sharp waves and posts.  Stage II sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles.  There are occasional bursts of left temporal slowing at F7/T3 during wakefulness and drowsiness consisting of 1.5-2.5 Hz delta frequency lasting 1-2 seconds.  Heart rate is 80 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity seen during wakefulness.
Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
Left temporal slowing seen during wakefulness and drowsiness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to toxic, metabolic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  The left temporal slowing could be suggestive of underlying structural abnormality in the left hemisphere or left temporal dysfunction.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  Generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepine or barbiturate.  Clinical correlation is recommended.



