CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 79-year-old man with a history of HIV and cryptococcal meningitis which produced rigidity.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, flucytosine, Zosyn, Cipro, Flomax, Benadryl, vancomycin, __________, cefepime, meropenem, and morphine and Ativan yesterday.
DATE OF STUDY:  From 02/27/2013 to 02/18/2013 for a total of 21 hours.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Change in mental status, history of epilepsy.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Throughout the recording there was a prominent frontal electrode muscle artifact seen throughout the recording.
INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 system electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode. The patient was recorded while lethargic and minimally responsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background rhythm with no posterior dominant rhythm or frontal central beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture although some stage changes can be noted.  Overall, the record reveals generalized theta or delta rhythm that at times improves, increasing and varies in frequency with intermittent prolonged runs of generalized periodic discharges that at times have a more frontal predominance and sometimes has a more right posterior quadrant predominance.  This posterior quadrant predominance at times has a very sharp contour and appears that some of them have a clear right posterior quadrant sharp wave morphology.  Some of these rhythmic discharges occur at a periodicity of about 0.5 to 1 Hz.  They never appear to evolve.  At some points when he is aroused, they do appear to increase in frequency related to the arousal reminiscent of stimulus induced rhythmic periodic discharges (SIRPIDs).  Some of them also have a very triphasic morphology, again anterior predominance and at times more right posterior quadrant predominance.
Heart rate 78.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Generalized slow waves 2 to 4 Hz, amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
Generalized periodic discharges at times with triphasic morphology, sometimes more frontal and sometimes more right posterior quadrant.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal electroencephalogram due to generalized slow waves as well as triphasics and generalized periodic discharges.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology. However, the presence of the triphasics and periodic discharges suggest more of a diffuse metabolic encephalopathic component.  In addition, however, some of the right posterior quadrant discharges appear to be very sharply contoured and although no seizures were seen, concern for development of or the risk for seizures is high.  No seizures were clearly seen during this recording.



