History: 44 YR  FEMALE cc ALPHAS IN RIGHT SIDE WEAKNESS.  [PT WITH SEIZ/RE 3/28.). METASTATIC BREAST CA, SIP CHEMO, DOUBLE MASTECTOMY,S P WHOLE BRAIN RX. MULT CNS LESIONS
Medications: Sedation: EEG Type:
Technique:
KEPPRA
None
Routine, awake & drowsy
International 10-20 System;standard 21 electrodes with T1fT2 electrodes, awake, drowsy
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 16.5 hours from 03/31/15 to 04/01/2015.  Nursing­ initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.  All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
.	.No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies. No normal sleep architecture was present  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
.	.
No focal slowing is present At the onset of the record reveals a seizure which consisted of rhythmic 02 sharp waves at 2-3 Hz continuously for 48 minutes. Clinically the patient is.unresponsive and has a left gaze deviation. The record stopped and when it returns minutes later there the seizure stopped and there are periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) present in the 02 region at a rate of 1 Hz. These discharges stop about an hour later.A diffusely slow background remains.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed. Hr was 132
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, single, marked, right occipital
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, right occipital
interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of focal status epilepticus for 48 minutes arising from the right occipital lobe.There is also moderate to severe diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm. These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.





