CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 39-year-old male with history of traumatic brain injury, cranial surgery with bilateral craniotomy, admitted with persistent seizures and postictal encephalopathy.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Dilantin, phenobarbital, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  This report includes Routine 22-minute digital video EEG performed at bedside and additional recording which (11:10 to 14:47) included 2 hours of satisfactory data and one hour of artifact. Recorded using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient was relatively somnolent, but moving around and somewhat interactive, more alert by 3 PM at the conclusion.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG demonstrates a continuous pattern, markedly slow with a prominent asymmetry.  The right hemisphere includes a mixture of rhythmic 13 Hz and 8.7 Hz activity as well as some delta.  There is prominent beta activity noted in the frontal regions.  The left hemisphere demonstrates pattern of more consistent arrhythmic delta with irregular, slow delta, frontal delta, and intermittent high amplitude, left frontal or frontotemporal sharp waves and spikes.  Some of the frontal delta has a positive phase reversal, compatible with craniotomy defect and there was quite prominent slow arrhythmic delta.  The left frontal sharp wave demonstrates some variability and can be maximum in the Fp1 or left anterior temporal region.  Features of drowsiness include an increase in background slowing with a more slow pattern noted on the left with left demonstrating more slow featureless activity in the right more of a beta pattern.
Push Button: 1:14 PM- somnolent, frequent L frontotemporal spikes, not a seizure. Practice PB.
Heart rate 86 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Markedly abnormal EEG due to;
Left frontal or frontotemporal sharp waves and spikes in the context of a cranial defect.
Markedly slow pattern on the left, which is relatively invariant.
Mild slowing on the right.
Prominent frontal beta.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This prolonged portable EEG supports a localization-related mechanism for epilepsy and may be correlated with history and clinical imaging.  This patient is relatively somnolent, but arousable during this study. Of note, he was more alert by 3 PM, consistent with resolving post ictal state



