History:	59 year old man with a history of seizures who has been seizure-free for many years.
Medications:	Depakote, Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9-10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow
waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
Occasional polymorphic theta and delta activity is noted over the bifrontal regions.  Intermittent
moderate-to-high amplitude prominent synchronous sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are
captured over the bifrontal regions.  Amplitude of these discharges is nearly always higher over the
left and  there appears to be minimal left lead-in.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F3 and F4
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does
not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes, intermittent, bilateral (L>R) frontal, more prominent over the left with
No stage 2 sleep
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, bilateral (L>R) frontal, mild-to-moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 23-minute EEG due to occasional mild-to-moderate
bifrontal (L>R) focal slowing and intermittent synchronous bifrontal epileptiform discharges that are
more prominent over the left. Focal slowing is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  These types of epileptiform discharges
are seen in focal (frontal) or treated generalized types of epilepsies.  Please correlate clinically.




