History:	65 year man with a history of focal nocturnal seizures, who had multiple episodes of
deja-vu sensation several days ago.  Since then he has not been feeling himself.
Medications:	Dilantin, Klonopin, zonisamide
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8.5-9 Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region
during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness and sleep.  Left anterior broadly based sharp
waves with aftergoing waves are seen.  They have a broad field and their frequency increases
significantly during sleep.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F7, T1 and T3 leads.  During
sleep, they occasionally occur in 2-3 second runs with a repetition rate of ~ 1 Hz.  No electrographic
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at
multiple flash rates.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, anterior, mild-to-moderate
Sharp waves, intermittent, left anterior, increase during sleep
No electrographic seizures
Sleep, stage 2
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 1 hour awake and asleep EEG due to intermittent mild-to-moderate left
anterior temporal focal slowing and intermittent left anterior epileptiform discharges. These
findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic area of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left
anterior/ anterior temporal region.




