History:
63 yo left handed man with h/o seizures since age 13 years old, which recurred at age 25 yrs.
Seizure Type 1: CPS 2nd generalization: Stomach upset followed by LOC. Afterwards he shakes with urinary incontinence. Confused for about 1O min and agitated afterwards. Frequency 1 per week.
Current AEDs: Tegretol XR 600mg Q12h, Zonisamide 100mg BID Previous AEDs: Keppra, PHT, LTG, TPM, PHB
Epilepsy Risk Factors: No complications during birth. Denies a family history of seizures, history of head trauma, previous CNS infection, febrile seizures or developmental delay.
Injuries: C5 vertebral fracture in the past. Also T5 and first rib fracture in the past, wrist injury. PMHx:
CHRONIC IDIOPATHIC CONSTIPATION
GERO
HEART BURN ANXIETY
Social Hx: Lives with brother who takes care of him. Unemployed. MRI brain w/o contrast (1/10/13) 1. Right mesial temporal sclerosis.
2. Chronic right occipital encephalomalacia and gliosis.
MRI brain w/o contrast (1/5/2006): 1.Volume loss in the right hippocampal cortex with abnormal T2 signal compatible with mesial temporal sclerosis.
2. Chronic right occipital infarct. post traumatic encephalomalacia is less likely. Minimal chronic small vessel ischemic changes
EEG (10/16/2015): Right anterior temporal sharp waves and slowing. EEG (05/26/2011): Right anterior temporal sharp waves and slow.
EEG (10/1-5/2007): Right temporal spikes and focal slowing. No Seizures. EEG (9/12/2005): Right much more than left temporal sharp waves.
Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:
The patient is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant mortality and morbidity risk. Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best treatment options. If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual mortality rate.
Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures causing injury or status epilepticus;
The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to provide first aid and patient safety during seizures;
The full hospital team must be present to deal with these medical emergency situations should they arise, including nurses to document patient's exam
there have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not a "low risk" service
Conditions of the recording:
A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring. The patient then underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system. Scalp electrodes were placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system. Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case. Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms. EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive. Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.
Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of epileptiform EEG activity and correlation with behavior. For approximately 24 hours each day the patient was monitored and attended via video by an EEG technician with special training in seizure recognition and testing. A neurologist was available in person or on call 24 hours per day.
Samples of EEG were recorded periodically. All events and detections, as well as selected samples, were stored to external hard drive media.
DESCRIPTION OF EMU EVALUATION:
Initial EEG:
A routine 21-channel initial EEG was performed with the patient awake. The posterior dominant rhythm was a symmetric 1O Hz. Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse symmetric background slowing. Photic stimulation resulted in appropriate photic driving.
Description of daily interictal EEGs:
Day 1	lnterictal background:The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.	Epileptiform activity:		F8/T4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7/T3 sharp waves	Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.	Seizures/events:	2 CPS	AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 600mg q12h
Day 1	lnterictal background:
The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.
Epileptiform activity:		F8/T4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7/T3 sharp waves
Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.
Seizures/events:	2 CPS
AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 600mg q12h
Day 2	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.	Epileptiform activity:		F8/T4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7/T3 sharp waves	Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.Seizures/events:	AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 600mg q12h
Day 2	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.
Epileptiform activity:		F8/T4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7/T3 sharp waves
Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.
Seizures/events:
AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 600mg q12h
Day 3	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.	Epileptiform activity:		F8fT4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves	Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.Seizures/events:	AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 600qam /300mg qpm
Day 3	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.
Epileptiform activity:		F8fT4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves
Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.
Seizures/events:
AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 600qam /300mg qpm
Day 4	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.	Epileptiform activity:		F8fT4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves	Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.Seizures/events:	AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 300q12h
Day 4	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.
Epileptiform activity:		F8fT4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves
Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.
Seizures/events:
AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg q12h, Tegretol XR 300q12h
Day 5	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.	Epileptiform activity:		F8fT4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves	Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.Seizures/events:	AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg qAm and 200mg qpm ,Tegretol XR 300qam and 600mg qpm
Day 5	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.
Epileptiform activity:		F8 T4 P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves
Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.
Seizures/events:
AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg qAm and 200mg qpm ,Tegretol XR 300qam and 600mg qpm
Day 6	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.	Epileptiform activity:		F8fT4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves	Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.Seizures/events:	AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg qam and 200mg qpm, Tegretol XR 600q12h
Day 6	lnterictal background:	The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 9 Hz.
Epileptiform activity:		F8fT4»P4/02 and 02 sharp waves. As well as very infrequent F7fT3 sharp waves
Sleep:	Very limited sleep with architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.
Seizures/events:
AEDs:	Zonisamide 100mg qam and 200mg qpm, Tegretol XR 600q12h
Clinical and EEG Characteristics during Seizures and Events:
Event #1:
Date: 1211412015	Time:  02:06:45PM
Baseline:
Clinical features:	EEG features:
While in bed sleeping suddenly lifts up his head	From sleep. Right posterior quadrant 4 Hz onset with slightly and scoots to the right side of the bed. He	rapid temporal then bi-frontal (right more than left)
then slumps to the right and appears to tremble his
body for a second. He then stares and appears to move his mouth.He is tested and code word given (it's not clear if he was still seizing as the EEG was lost). He does not follow motor or verbal commands in English or Spanish.
He shows some mouth movements and his eyes are deviated to the right. He then appears to arouse slightly and intermittently have body jerks .Seizure stopped on EEG at this point. Jerks have no clear
spread followed by a 1second pause and restarting
clearly at T4 with a 6Hz sharp wave discharge that rapidly spreads to the anterior temporal region and bi-frontally. This continues to evolve the EEG is lost
for a 1minute and 30 seconds. After the EEG returns there is diffuse slowing with intermittent muscle jerk artifact.Seizure duration is unclear.
EKG HR increased from 60 to 120 during the
event.
cannot recall code word
Event #2:
Date:  1211412015	Time:  08:51:53PM
Baseline:
Clinical features:
While awake in bed. Suddenly starts slapping the bed with his right hand and starts trembling his legs. He then slumps to the right. He then lays there motionless. He is not tested until after the seizure stops.
EEG features:
While awake. Sudden right posterior quadrant 4Hz discharge that moves rapidly to the left fronto­ temporal region and settles there before spreading bilaterally it continues to evolve in frequency and amplitude and suddenly stops. There is diffuse slowing after. Seizure duration in 1 minute and 5 seconds.
EKG HR increased from 84 to 180 during the event.
INDUCTION PROCEDURES:
None
SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:
lnterictal Findings:
Frequent right anterior temporal more than posterior quadrant and occipital sharp waves.
Occasional left anterior temporal sharp waves
lctal Findings:
The patient had 2 clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in the epilepsy monitoring unit.
SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:
1. CPS
EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:
1. Localization related epilepsy arising from the right hemisphere likely from the occipital region.
CONCLUSION:
admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 6 days with continuous video EEG. During the EMU monitoring session 2 events were captured with sudden sideways slumping, mouth movements and postictal agitation. The EEG pointed to a right posterior quadrant onset.
Frequent right anterior temporal and occipital as well as infrequent left anterior temporal epileptiform discharges indicate a potentially epileptogenic focus in those regions.
The patient's carbamazepine was tapered in half over the course of her admission. He was restarted on his medications and zonisamide dose was increased on the day prior to his discharge from the hospital. No other medication changes were made during the hospitalization.
After this data is acquired and will be presented at surgical conference to discuss the possibility of intracranial monitoring I electrocorticography as a next step in her surgical evaluation.



