LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  25 minutes.


CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 57-year-old man who is status post a right craniotomy on 04/29/2012.  He currently has auditory hallucinations  while in rehabilitation hospital along with episodes of sudden onset of staring lasting several seconds, followed by confusion for about 15 to 20 minutes.  These episodes occur 3 to 4 times a week over the past several months and the patient does not recall these events.

MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Lopressor, Cardura, Procardia, Zocor.

INTRODUCTION:  The recording was done according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes as well as a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation was not performed. Photic stimulation was performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is significant right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with higher amplitudes and slower waveforms over the right hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere consists of a well-formed and modulated low amplitude, 9 to 9.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eye opening. There is an anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the left hemisphere.  Over the right hemisphere the posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude of 9 Hz alpha activity with intrusions of underriding faster frequencies.  The anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the right is weak.  Additional polymorphic theta and delta activity are captured over the right hemisphere and most prominent over the front temporal central regions.  During drowsiness an increased amount of theta diffusely is captured.  Sleep architecture is more pronounced over the right hemisphere.  Stage 2 sleep is not captured.  Hyperventilation is not performed.  Photic stimulation does not result in occipital driving.  A single EKG lead demonstrates intermittent premature atrial contractions with subsequent pauses lasting greater than 1 second.

FINDINGS:
1. Breach rhythm over the right hemisphere.
2. Moderate right hemispheric slowing most prominent over the right front temporal central regions.
3. No stage II sleep.
4. Asymmetry of sleep architecture with sleep architecture better noted over the right hemisphere.
5. Intermittent premature atrial contractions observed on the single EKG lead.



IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 25 minute EEG due to mild to moderate right hemispheric slowing most pronounced over the right front temporal central regions.  These findings indicate underlying cerebral dysfunction and consistent with the patient's history of a right hemisphere craniotomy.  Breach rhythm indicates a skull defect.  Intermittent premature atrial contractions are captured on a single EKG lead.  No epileptiform discharges or epileptic seizures are captured.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on the routine EKG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.


