CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 59-year-old woman with right carotid stenosis, bilateral carotid disease for right carotid endarterectomy.
MEDICATIONS:  Clonidine, Xanax, lisinopril, Lasix, Plavix, aspirin, and Ancef.  OR medications desflurane, Ancef, Propofol, ketamine, Versed, fentanyl, vecuronium, and phenylephrine.
INTRODUCTION:  2 hour and 20 minute EEG was performed in the operating room using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with CEA montage.  EEG physician was present for 50 minutes of the study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the recording begins, the patient has received anesthesia, desflurane initially, but the initial pattern is a markedly suppressed pattern with a burst suppression pattern.  This finding is reported to the OR team and anesthetic medications are adjusted.  The anesthesia team works to try and adjust medications and avoid a low blood pressure.  Despite this, the EEG continues to demonstrate at least to some degree of burst suppression pattern.
Asymmetry is noted with the burst suppression pattern and at times, the left or right hemisphere may be a bit more suppressed.  Typically, the left hemisphere is slightly more suppressed.
A clamp is placed over the carotid at 9:22 over the internal carotid with a clamp over the common carotid and then the external carotid 9:23:14.  No additional changes were noted in the EEG.  There is some waxing and waning of the discontinuous pattern, but after the placement of the clamp, the record is a bit more continuous on the right compared to the left.
The clamp remains in place for 58 minutes 44 seconds.  There are some shifting, posterior asymmetries noted.  The clamp is removed by 10:21:22 and patency was confirmed by Doppler at that time.  No additional changes were noted and the EEG was becoming slightly more continuous at study conclusion, 10:24:37.
Heart rate 54 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  EEG monitoring during this carotid endarterectomy was remarkable for a discontinuous pattern, but no change with placement of a clamp.



