History:	66 year old woman with a known metastatic lung cancer with prior seizures and
status epilepticus, who now presents with worsening neurological exam.
Medications:	VALPROIC ACID, PHENOBARBITAL, KEPPRA , SEROQUEL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, asleep, lethargic, obtunded
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with faster waveforms over the left hemisphere.
The background over the left hemisphere of polymorphic up to 8.5 Hz activity posteriorly with
excess polymorphic theta and delta activity, weak AP gradient and occasional T5/P3/ O1 sharp
waves.  The background over the right hemisphere lacks PDR or AP gradient and consists of a
mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity with intermittent moderate amplitude, at times 1-2
Hz rhythmic moderate-to-high amplitude frontal sharp waves and  independent less frequent T2-T4
sharp waves.  Frequency of right hemispheric sharp waves increases during drowsiness.  No normal
sleep architecture is present but periods of quiescence are captured.
No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There is reactivity and variability in
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, mild-to-moderate
Sharp waves, intermittent, left posterior
Sharp waves, intermittent, right frontal
Sharp waves, occasional, right temporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 22-minute EEG due to mild-to-moderate left hemispheric focal slowing,
moderate right hemispheric focal slowing, independent left posterior, right temporal and right
frontal epileptiform discharges. Slowing indicates cerebral dysfunction, that in this patient is both
diffuse (etiologically non-specific) and focal (structural in etiology).  There are independent
epileptogenic foci over the left posterior quadrant, right temporal and right frontal regions.  These
findings are consistent with known metastasis in the corresponding cerebral regions.  No clinical or


