CLINICAL HISTORY:   60 year old man with history of Marfan's and here for a descending hemiarch aortic repair due to aortic dissection.

MEDICATIONS:  Versed, Fentanyl, Isoflurane, Vecuronium, Propofol Ancef, Lidocaine, Potassium, Solu Medrol, Magnesium, Protamine

REASON FOR STUDY:  EEG monitoring during a descending hemiarch aortic repair and left thoracotomy.

INTRODUCTION:  An EEG was performed intraoperatively during a descending hemiarch aortic repair lasting for a period of 8 hours.  Standard 10-20 electrode placement system was used in addition to single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was monitored throughout the procedure and intermittently the surgeon was informed about the changes in the EEG.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record began at 8 in the morning.  The head began to be cooled about 11 in the morning.  Burst suppression was reached around 10:30 in the morning.  Circulatory arrest occurred later on at that time and cardiac arrest continued until 12:26 p.m.  The patient was then slowly rewarmed from a temperature that was as low at 18 degrees.  Later on, the patient was begun to rewarmed about 1:32 p.m.  The EEG had no changes and no bursts were seen until about 2:54 p.m.  Please note that the patient had been using propofol which had not been used in the past and that was stopped about 45 minutes prior to seeing the first burst.  As the EEG continued to be monitored, there were more prolonged bursts of diffuse slow activity seen throughout the recording and by 4 o'clock when the EEG was finished, there was semi-continuous brain activity seen at 2 mcV/mm sensitivity.  All these changes in the EEG were reported and communicated to the primary team and I was present during all the critical portions of this study.

IMPRESSION:  Uneventful hemi-aortic arch repair EEG monitoring with achieving burst suppression and return of diffuse cerebral activity.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No lateralizing abnormalities were seen during hemi-aortic arch repair and burst suppression monitoring.


