History:	71 YR OLD FEMALE AT HOME PER  DAUGHTER MOTHER  WAS BITTEN  BY A
RAT. W AS  GOING TO BE D/C YESTERDAY WHEN SHE WAS SEEN HAVING A
SZ. SHAKING, INCONT. PER NURSE 53 CM HEAD PMHX.  ADVANCED
DEMENTIA NON VERBAL, HTN.
Medications:	HEPARIN ANTIBIOTICS
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, lethargic
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Diffuse, frontally maximal periodic discharges waves at ~ 1Hz at times with a triphasic
morphology are present throughout the recording.  These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to
posterior phase lag. They improve with sleep.  No normal sleep architecture was present, but state
No focal slowing is present.  Occasional generalized frontally-maximal spikes are present.These
appear asymmetric at times with a left or right predominance.  No clinical or electrographic seizures
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  Hr was 66
Summary of Findings:
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), triphasic morphology at times
Spikes, occasional, Frontal predominant but asymmetric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of moderate to severe back ground slowing frequent frontally-
maximal periodic discharges at times with triphasics morphology and severe diffuse background
slowing.  These findings are indicative of a severe diffuse encephalopathy, which is etiologically
nonspecific, but suggestive of a metabolic origin and can also be seen in NEURODEGENERATIVE
processes like Alzheimer's and CJD.  The occasional generalized epileptiform discharges are
potentially epileptogenic. At her age they may be representative of an overall cortical
degenerative process rather than a genetic epilepsy  or alternatively they may be focal discharges
with rapid bilateral synchrony with a potential underlying epileptogenic cortical lesion.





