DIAGNOSIS:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 39-year-old male with a history of seizures described as a tonic extension of the left upper extremities.   The patient is mute during the episodes and appears dazed as each attack terminates.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include Clobazam, carbamazepine, levetiracetam.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the lab using the standard international 10/20 system electrode placement in addition to 1-channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness through drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 7-8 Hz in frequency, 50-60 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is excess theta activity noted during wakefulness with a frequency of 5-6 Hz and an amplitude of 40-60 microvolt.  There is generalized low amplitude beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of posterior dominant rhythm and slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  There are occasional bursts of bitemporal slowing at F7/T3 and a F8/T4 more prominent on the right side during wakefulness.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a driving response.  Hyperventilation results in slowing of the background activity.  Heart rate is 60 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm and excess theta activity and occasional bitemporal slowing during wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to toxic metabolic hypoxic or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Bitemporal slowing could be suggestive of an underlying structural abnormalities in these areas.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepines or could be due to anxiety or hyperthyroidism.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform discharges were seen in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If seizures are a clinical concern, a repeat sleep-deprived EEG or a 24-hour ambulatory EEG may be helpful.



