History:	56 YR FEMALE WITH CHANGE IN MS.  AND WITNESS GTC SZ.  PMHX: SZ,
SCHIZOPHRENIA,
PT IS WELL KNOWN PT TO NEURO. MISSES CLINIC APPT.   PT HAIR MATTED
(ALWAYS MATTED HEAD, NOT MEASURED, ELECTRODES GUESSED)
Medications:	LACOSEMIDE, KEPPRA, PHENOBARBITAL, ATIVAN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, asleep, lethargic, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for  hours from 03/23/2015 to 03/25/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Nearly continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere.  Occasional focal
spike-, polyspike and sharp waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F7,
F8, F4 and C4. Some have a very large field spreading bilaterally frontally maximal with a
polyphasic complex morphology.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  Hr was 120
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, severe diffuse
Sharp waves, frequent, bilateral temporal, anterior
Sharp waves, frequent, bilateral frontal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  frequent epileptiform discharges in the bilateral frontal
region and anterior temporal regions.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic
foci in these regions. In addition there is  nearly continuous focal slowing in the left hemisphere
region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific,
but possibly structural in origin or may be a post ictal effect. Lastly there is severe  diffuse

background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific
indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.






