CLINICAL HISTORY: This is an 89-year-old woman admitted with status epilepticus.  History of stroke, seizure disorder, and dementia.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Keppra, Phenobarbital, and others.
INTRODUCTION: Long-term video EEG monitoring is performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. This is a three-day study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing starts, the background EEG is disorganized with an almost undetectable posterior dominant alpha rhythm. Occasional 6 Hz activity is seen in the frontocentral regions.  Burst activity as well as a burst suppression pattern is seen soon after the start of the EEG consistent with a pharmacological effect of Phenobarbital.  The burst and burst suppression pattern waxed and waned depending on the dose of Phenobarbital being administered, but was more predominant in the right hemisphere.    No clear clinical seizures were seen on the video camera.
Long-Term EEG Monitoring – March 26, 2006 to March 27, 2006 (08:41:47 to 05:06:24)
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is similar to the previous day. No posterior dominant alpha rhythm is seen; instead, moderately increased beta activity is seen diffusely, more so in the frontocentral region.  This is consistent with a Phenobarbital effect. The burst and burst suppression pattern waxed and waned depending on the dose of Phenobarbital and is seen predominantly in the right hemisphere.    Again, no clinical or physical seizures were observed on the video camera or on the background. At the end of the second section of this recording, there is increased theta and delta activity seen in the background bilaterally.  The burst and burst suppression pattern is also seen in both hemispheres, but again more so on the right hemisphere.
Long-Term EEG Monitoring – March 27, 2006 to March 28, 2006 (45:22 to 11:06:49)
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is disorganized with an absent posterior dominant alpha rhythm. Again, increased beta activity is seen diffusely throughout the tracing. The pattern shifted to a burst suppression with a frequency of about 1 to 3 seconds and increased the burst discharges in the left hemisphere in comparison to day two of this study.  No clinical seizures were correlated with the video camera.  At the conclusion of this long-term EEG monitoring, more theta activity at 5 to 7 Hz was seen diffusely in the hemispheres bilaterally.
HR:  66 to 84 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal long-term EEG monitoring due to:
Disorganized background.
Absent alpha rhythm.
Burst and burst suppression pattern induced by Phenobarbital.
Asymmetric EEG background.
Decreased brain activity in the left hemisphere.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This 72-hour long-term EEG monitoring is indicative of a severe brain dysfunction involving both gray and white matter, as well as the deeper nuclei in the mid-structures.  The asymmetric, as well as decreased brain activity on the left may suggest a pathological process involving the left hemisphere. Clinical correlation is recommended.  The burst and burst suppression pattern with a waxing and waning appearance is consistent with a pharmacological effect of Phenobarbital.  In order to better characterize this patient’s seizures, a repeat EEG when the patient is more alert and cooperative with the routine activation procedures may be helpful.




