History:	75 year old man with a history of seizures since childhood, TBI, stroke, left sided
craniotomy, now presents with progressive confusion.
Medications:	Phenobarbital
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  Posterior
dominant rhythm consists of low-to-moderate amplitude 7-8 Hz theta activity.  PDR is less well
formed over the left. There is AP gradient, again, weaker over the left.  Diffuse excess theta activity
is present.  There is paucity of faster frequencies and mild voltage attenuation over the left
hemisphere, especially over the left temporal region.  Drowsiness and sleep is characterized by
increase in the amount of polymorphic diffuse theta and delta activity and subtle vertex waves.
Intermittent left anterior temporal low amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are
captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T1 lead.  Sharp waves are more prominent during
drowsiness/ sleep.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  A single EKG lead shows irregular
heart rate up to 120 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, mild-to-moderate, especially over the
Attenuation, mild, left hemispheric
Sharp waves, intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Cardiac arrhythmia
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable 22-minute awake and asleep EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing;
(2) mild-to-moderate continuous left hemispheric focal slowing and mild attenuation, most
pronounced over the temporal region and (3) intermittent left anterior temporal epileptiform
discharges.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the left and is
consistent with known history of left hemispheric strokes.  There is an epileptogenic focus over the
left anterior temporal region.  A single EKG lead shows irregular heart rate up to 120 bpm.





