AGE: 95 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 12/29/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT : ED
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake only EEG #: 15-1871
HISTORY:
95 y.o. female who presented with right sided twitching and aphasia, then obtundation . She is referred for routine EEG for evaluation of this episode and for mental status change.
MEDICATIONS: None listed
SEDATION : None listed TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically difficult study, with diffuse muscle artifact obscuring both temporal chains. The study included a single channel of EKG.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is continuous, symmetric, reactive, and has fair organization , consisting of predominantly alpha frequencies with admixed theta and delta.	There is a posterior dominant rhythm of 8 Hz. The patient is noted by the technician to follow simple commands .
Drowsiness and sleep are not captured.
Mild generalized slowing is present.
There are very frequent 1-2-second bursts of sharply contoured theta frequency activity over the left hemisphere.
There are very frequent 2-second bursts of delta activity over the left fronto-temporal region. Occasionally this delta activity is rhythmic at 1 Hz for <3 sec periods (TIRDA-like, or temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity).
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
There is no definite epileptiform activity. Delta activity noted over the left fronto-temporal regions appears rhythmic at times, but does not meet persist for long enough to meet criteria for TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
An irregular heart rate in the 80s-90s is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake only routine EEG due to:
Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization
Very frequent 1-2-second bursts of sharply contoured theta frequency activity over the left hemisphere.
Very frequent 2-second bursts of delta activity over the left fronto-temporal region that is occasionally rhythmic but does not persist long enough to meet criteria for temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA)
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of left hemisphere and left fronto-temporal dysfunction, superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction .
If clinically indicated, a more prolonged study may be of value to assess for definite epileptogenic discharges.



