History:	41 year man with seizures.
Medications:	Dilantin and phenobarbital
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
During maximal wakefulness the posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic low-to-
moderate amplitude 9 Hz alpha activity.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal
over bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75
uV, 5-7Hz activity is present even during maximal wakefulness.  Frequent bursts of high amplitude
diffuse delta activity are present during wakefulness.  Similar activity is present during drowsiness
and sleep.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely,
followed by symmetric vertex waves.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate
voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Subtle paucity of faster frequencies is observed intermittently over the right temporal region.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Beta, excessive
Sleep, stage 2
No epileptiform discharges
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right temporal, mild-to-moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 22-minute EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, intermittent
mild-to-moderate focal right temporal slowing and intrusions of sleep architecture into wakefulness.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, that in
this patient is at least partially related to an excessively drowsy patient.  Intermittent focal slowing
indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology. The lack of epileptiform
discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.  Excessive beta
activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.



