History:	62 year old woman who presents after an anoxic brain injury.
Medications:	Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for  24 hours from 11/3/2014 to 11/4/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  There is subtle right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with
slower waveforms over the left hemisphere.  There is gradual slowing of the the background as the
recording progresses.  This corresponds to increase in doses in the CNS-active medications.  The
background consists of a mixture of polymorphic low amplitude theta and delta activity.  There is
relative paucity of theta activity over the left.  Additionally, diffuse, posteriorly predominant 0.75-1
Hz sharp waves are captured.  Their frequency decreases significantly after ~ 2 PM.  Intermittent
focal ~30 sec- 90 second right parietotemporal seizures are early in the recording.  Their frequency
gradually decreases to several per hour as the recording progresses and their duration shortens.  No
normal sleep architecture is present.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate, moderate-to-severe later in the recording
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric
Seizure, intermittent, right, parietotemporal, 30- 90 sec in duration
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24-hour continuous video EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse slowing,
focal left hemispheric slowing and intermittent right parietotemporal seizures. Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate to- severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but
in this patient is at least partially related to the medication effect.  There is an epileptogenic
structural lesion over the right.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.





