History:  21 year old man with seizures for one year admitted to the here for differential and classification.
Inpatient continuous EEG monitoring required due to one or more of the following reasons:
The patient Is having medically uncontrolled seizures or clinical events, which poses a significant mortality and morbidity risk. Continuous monitoring will aid in diagnosis and determining best treatment options. If seizures are left untreated, there is a 10-20% annual morbidity and 2% annual mortality rate.
Continuous monitoring is required to capture a sufficient number of clinical events or seizures, while medication are reduced or provoked, which increases the risk of severe seizures and at risk of seizures causing injury or status epilepticus;
The EMU is set up to monitor and record EEGs during seizures and it includes nurses trained to provide first aid and
patient safety during seizures;
The full hospital team must be present to deal With these medical emergency situations should they arise, including nurses to document patient's exam
there have been 13 reported deaths during various video-EEG monitoring procedures, so this is not a "low risk" service
Conditions of the recording:
A routine 21 channel digital EEG was recorded at the onset of monitoring. The patient then underwent continuous CCTV/EEG monitoring using a cable telemetry system. Scalp electrodes were placed and secured with collodion according to the 10-20 international electrode system. Sphenoidal electrodes were not used in this case. Impedances were measured and verified to be below 5 Kohms. EEG activity was recorded referentially to vertex reference, digitized, and stored to computer hard drive. Periods of interest were subsequently reformatted to the montage of interest and reviewed in detail.
Staff supervision, patient-initiated event buttons and computerized algorithms allowed detection of epileptiform EEG activity and correlation With behavior. For approximately 8 hours each day the patient was attended by an EEG technician. A neurologist was available in person or on call 24 hours per day. The patient was monitored via video 24 hours per day by a registered nurse with special training in seizure recognition and testing. During times when a technician was not available, EEG recording, video recording, and computer analysis continued, and nursing performed seizure testing and electrode maintenance.
Samples of EEG were recorded periodically. Detections were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
DESCRIPTION OF EMU EVALUATION:
Initial EEG:
A routine 21-channel initial EEG was performed with the patient awake. The posterior dominant rhythm was a symmetric 1O Hz.
Day 1	lnterictal background:Description of daily interictal EEGs:
Day 1	lnterictal background:
The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 10 Hz.In frequent bursts of -1 sec of symmetric frontal predominant generalized spike­ and-wave discharges at 4-4.5Hz  are noted.None Normal sleep architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.None NONE
The bilateral posterior dominant rhythm is symmetric and reaches 10 Hz.
In frequent bursts of -1 sec of symmetric frontal predominant generalized spike­ and-wave discharges at 4-4.5Hz  are noted.
None
Normal sleep architecture is seen and includes: stage I and stage II sleep. Vertex waves, and sleep spindles.
None
NONE
Epileptiform activity:Sleep:Seizures/events: AEDs:Clinical and EEG Characteristics during Seizures and Events:
Epileptiform activity:
Sleep:
Seizures/events: AEDs:
None
INDUCTION PROCEDURES:
None
SUMMARY OF VIDEO EEG FINDINGS:
lnterictal Findings:
Frontal predominant generalized spike-and-wave discharges at 4-4.5Hz
lctal Findings:
The patient had no clinical events while hooked up to continuous video EEG monitoring in the epilepsy monitoring unit.
SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS:
1. Generalized
EPILEPSY DIAGNOSIS:
1. Idiopathic generalized epilepsy
CONCLUSION:
admitted to the epilepsy monitoring unit for 1 day with continuous video EEG. The interictal EEG is characterized by infrequent generalized spike-and-wave, which are potentially epileptogenic. Background activity is otherwise normal. These findings are consistent with a diagnosis of primary generalized epilepsy.



