History:	55 year old male with right hemisphere brain injury, and recurrent electrographic
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes, lethargic Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the ______
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description: There is obvious hemispheric asymmetry characterized by continuous focal delta over the right hemisphere and theta/delta seen over the left hemisphere. A fragmented posterior dominant rhythm is seen on the left from 7-8Hz.  The amplitude asymmetries suggest a right breach artifact. Overall, the record has improved significantly over the past 24 hours with less frequent PLEDs.  No normal sleep architecture was present. There are rhythmic to semi-rhythmic right occipitotemporal PLEDs varying from 0.5-1 Hz maximal at T4-T6. There are no overt clinical manifestations associated with the PLEDs.  By 5PM, the PLEDs have slowed to 0.5-1Hz and there were no further electrographic seizures seen.  After 8PM, the PLEDs become fragmented and are replaced with sharply contoured delta. Clinically the patient is sedated and ventilated.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral hemispheric
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), intermittent, right posterior quadrant
Interpretation: This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG due to focal right hemisphere slowing, diffuse bihemispheric slowing, a right breach artifact, right sided PLEDs. Over the past 24 hours, the record has improved. These findings suggest a structural lesion over the right hemisphere with a highly epileptogenic, irritative focus.  By late evening the LEDs had diminished and were replaced with sharply contoured delta.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

