CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 67-year-old woman with advanced dementia, failure to thrive, prior refusal to eat, cervical myelopathy, status post fusion, admitted with recurrent seizures characterized by twitching of the mouth and right hand.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenytoin, Vimpat, benzodiazepines, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The recording began several hours after the patient has been treated for recurrent focal seizures with little in the way of a clear change in mental status.
 04/07/2015 to 04/08/2015
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  During the early hours of the record, the background EEG is diffusely slow.  There are intermittent rhythmic bursts of theta noted from the left temporal region, but these do not have clear build up and are not associated with clear change in the patient's level of consciousness.  As the patient drifts off to sleep, the EEG is markedly slow and featureless.
In this section of the record, no clinical seizures were recorded.  Practice push buttons were noted.  The patient had an episode of vocalization without clear clinical correlate.
Heart rate:  90 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  Day #1, April 7th to 8th:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
A markedly slow pattern.
Some bursts of rhythmic slowing noted in the initial sections of the record without clinical change.
Markedly slow background.
04/08/2015 to 04/09/2015
MEDICATIONS: Phenytoin, Vimpat, others.
INTRODUCTION:  During this section of the record, the patient was increasingly arousable and interactive, although essentially nonverbal.  No clinical seizures were noted.
Background:  The overall background is markedly slow, lacking the typical morphologies of wakefulness or sleep for this adult.  Intermittent more rhythmic theta was noted from the left temporal region, but not in sustained bursts. Additional recording on the morning of April 9th demonstrate a patient, who is more awake.  The background EEG remained markedly slow, heart rate 90 bpm.
Epileptiform activity: None
Clinical seizures none.
Electrographic seizures none.
Sleep record:  Markedly slow pattern with at times, rhythmic theta.
Heart rate:  90 bpm.
Impression:  This 2 day, continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Markedly slow background.
Relatively featureless pattern, lacking in a normal wave forms expected in wakefulness and sleep for an adult of this age.
Bursts of rhythmic theta noted from the left temporal region, most remarkable on the 7th, seen much on the 8th and not present on the 9th.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In this individual with recurrent seizures on the morning of the 7th, this EEG shows resolution of a recurrent seizure pattern for this patient with a clinical diagnosis of focal motor status epilepticus.




