History:	56 year old woman who presents with focal status epilepticus.  Patient has a history
of stroke, focal seizures and HIV.
Medications:	Vimpat and Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 1/18/2015 till 1/19/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right consists of 7 Hz PDR posteriorly but poor AP gradient with delta activity
anteriorly and excess polymorphic theta.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of
polymorphic theta and delta activity, predominantly delta activity anteriorly and continuous
frontopolar periodic epileptiform discharges that occur with a regular repetition rate of ~0.75-1 Hz.
Maximal scalp negativity occurs over Fp1 lead and is reflected over to the Fp2 lead.  Sleep spindles are captured.
No electrographic seizures are captured.  There are several push button events.  All but one are
associated with increasing patient agitation.  Electrographically patient is awake during these
events without a clear underlying ictal activity.  An event at ~ 11 PM is characterized by decreased
responsiveness in the patient.  Patient is off the camera throughout the duration of the event.
Electrographically, EEG background is diffusely slow with prominent 1 Hz left anterior PLEDs -
similar to  the background observed during sleep.  Approximately 5 minutes prior to the push
button, decrease in heart rate from ~65-70 bpm to ~40 bpm is noted on a single EKG lead.  Heart
rate increases back to ~ 60 bpm at ~ 11:02 PM.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
No electrographic seizures
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), continuous, left anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 24 hours EEG due to (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing;
(2) continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the anterior region;
and (3) continuous left anterior rhythmic epileptiform discharges (PEDs and quasi-PEDs).  Diffuse
slowing is indicative of mild-to-moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  There is epileptogenic focal structural lesion over the left anterior quadrant.  Episodes
of agitation are not associated with an abnormal ictal correlate.  During the episode of
unresponsiveness around 11 PM, heart rate decrease from ~65-70 bpm to ~40 bpm  noted on a single
EKG lead.  No electrographic seizures are present.





