LENGTH OF RECORDING:  29 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 42-year-old woman who presents with episodes of losing time for the last 2 months or so.  The patient's companion reports that she also appears to have fluctuating mental status in the last several days.  Of note, yesterday the patient was found to have renal dysfunction.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Notable for drug abuse, hepatitis, and migraines.
MEDICATIONS:  Methadone, Wellbutrin, gabapentin, Vistaril, Risperdal, Topamax, albuterol, and Advair.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic 9-10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  The posterior dominant rhythm is stable.  There is an anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient that at times is weak as well.  Additionally, diffuse polymorphic theta, occasional delta, and FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity) are captured.  Occasional triphasic wave forms with anterior-to-posterior lag are noted.  Hyperventilation was performed with fair effort and does not result in significant change in the background.  Stepped photic stimulation does not result in additional abnormalities.  A single sharp transient is noted over the right mid temporal region.  Sleep is captured and characterized by attenuation of the posterior dominant rhythm and bursts of delta and theta activity as well as some FIRDA-like wave forms.
FINDINGS:
Mild diffuse slowing.
FIRDA.
Triphasic wave forms.
Right temporal sharp transient.
No electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 29-minute EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and triphasic wave forms.  These findings indicate etiological and nonspecific mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, possibly toxic metabolic in etiology.  Triphasic wave forms are seen in various forms of encephalopathy.  FIRDA is seen in encephalopathy.  Increased intracranial pressure and deep white matter lesions.  A single sharp transient seen over the right temporal region is of unclear clinical significance.  The lack of epileptiform discharges does not preclude a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.



