CLINICAL HISTORY: 61 year old right handed male with multiple aneurysms on the right but first ever tonic clonic seizures with persistent confusion. Question also of complex partial seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote, Hydralazine, Amlodipine
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is somewhat confused.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Although the patient is able to answer questions, the background EEG is markedly abnormal. The left hemisphere is somewhat lower voltage. The right hemisphere includes a rhythmic delta activity with a high amplitude spike and slow wave complex in the right frontocentral region with some variability typically C4.
When the patient is asked to count to 10, 8 Hz activity appears out of the right hemisphere. At one point, the pattern almost looks like an alerting but at another point during this, it almost looks as if an ictal pattern is generated during this testing. There is variability in the record with some sections demonstrating more alpha frequency activity than others. The right hemisphere demonstrates a significant breech rhythm.
The spike and wave activity has a slower periodicity demonstrating some waxing and waning but its alpha theta frequency activity which may represent an ictal pattern for this individual versus an arousal. Photic stimulation does not clearly activate the record.
HR: 84 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Prominent epileptiform activity in the right central region.
2. Questionable subclinical seizures characterized by more rhythmic delta theta from the right and/or perhaps a pattern of more rhythmic alpha theta frequency activity.
3. Relatively lower voltage featureless pattern on the right.
4. Breech rhythm with much higher amplitude activity on the right
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG supports a structural process on the right involving gray and white matter. There is a highly epileptogenic focus on the right. Additional recording is suggested to make sure that clinical seizures are not missed.



