History:	58 year old man who presents with change in mental status and seizures.
Medications:	Topamax, zonisamide
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes
Continuous  bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 08/30/2014 till 08/31/2014.    Nursing­ initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The background over the right consists of 10 Hz alpha posteriorly, expected AP gradient and excess theta activity.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity, with sharply contoured delta activity most prominent over the left anterior quadrant.  Of note, with stimulation, delta activity increases in rhythmicity.  Additional underriding fast activity is observed over the left anterior region.  Diffuse excess beta activity is noted.  Symmetric sleep spindles are present.
No seizures are captured.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric, especially anterior Breach artifact, left anterior
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; and (2) continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing (especially the anterior quadrant). Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There is a structural lesion over the left.
Breach artifact is secondary to a skull defect.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  No electrographic seizures are present.



