CLINICAL HISTORY:  53 year old right handed woman with a history of seizures and alcohol abuse, now with intermittent episodes of confusion and agitation, concerning for seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat 50 mg b.i.d.
CONDITIONS OF RECORDING:  Digital video continuous EEG performed was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is a right to left interhemispheric asymmetry.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere consists of a low to moderate amplitude 9 to 10 Hz alpha activity with preserved anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere consists of 79 Hz activity with weak anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  During sleep, sleep spindles and at least epoch of REM sleep is captured.  There is additional continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity over the right hemisphere, most notably over the right temporal region.  Independent right anterior temporal frontocentral epileptiform discharges and additional independent right midtemporal as well as independent right posterior quadrant/occipital epileptiform discharges are captured.  Phase reversal occurs over F8, T6, and O2 electrodes, respectively.  As the recording progresses, frequency of right occipital/right posterior quadrant epileptiform discharges increases.  A single episode concerning for an electrographic seizure is captured.  It starts at about 10:45 p.m., lasting until about 10:50 p.m.  It is characterized by rhythmic slow delta activity observed over the right hemisphere, most notably over the right temple region with embedded sharp waves over T6 and O2 electrodes.  The patient appears to wake up at the beginning of the seizure.  Also, there is an increase in the heart rate observed in a single EKG lead from about 120 beats a minute to about 130 to 140 beats a minute.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
FINDINGS:
Focal slowing over the right hemisphere, most notably over the right temple region.
Independent epileptiform discharges over the right anterior temporal central region, right midtemporal region, and right posterior quadrant/occipital region.  The frequency of these epileptiform discharges increases as the recording progresses.
Likely a single electrographic right hemispheric, primarily right midtemporal/right posterior quadrant electrographic seizure is captured at approximately 10:45 p.m.  This seizure lasted approximately 5 minutes.  There is an associated increase in the heart rate during the event, as well as the patient awakening at the beginning of the event.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal continuous, about 15 hour, video EEG due to:
Continuous moderate right hemispheric slowing, most notable over the right midtemporal region.
Independent right anterior frontocentral, right midtemporal, and right posterior quadrant/occipital region epileptiform discharges.
Likely a single approximately 5-minute focal right hemispheric, primarily right midtemporal/right posterior quadrant electrographic seizure.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:   These findings indicate a significant dysfunction over the right hemisphere, likely structural in etiology with increased epileptogenic potential.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology consulting team at the time of the review.



