CLINICAL HISTORY:  Acute respiratory distress “62 YO FEMALE CRIED OUT FOR HELP FROM BATHROOM IN AFTERNOON, PT WAS HAVING TROUBLE BREATHING SISTER CALLED EMS. PMHX: HTN, CVA, HCV, DD, Depression.” CT demonstrated previous left thalamic infarct with anoxic features including R basal ganglia, multisystem injury.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan and midazolam on the 31st, phenytoin added on the 1st.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG recording was performed in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This was a technically challenging record with intermittent loss of the EKG lead in a patient with irregular heart rate.  The patient was cardioverted during the LTM EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
October 31-Nov 1, 2014:
The initial hours of the EEG demonstrated a diffusely slow pattern with intermittent rhythmic theta.  It is overall a low voltage pattern.   Low voltage, periodic delta can be glimpsed on 1 or 2 occasions in the early portions of the record, but are not sustained or definitive.
At 8:20 p.m., EKG artifact is picked up in the bilateral occipital electrodes and is irregular.  Some of this can be correlated with this patient's EKG artifact, but not all of the waveforms.  Occipital spikes appear intermittently at 8:35 and the EKG is interpretable at that time.  The epileptiform activity is at that point bilateral.  This is confounded by intermittent EKG artifact, which appears in the same region.
More prominent arrhythmic delta activity is noted in the frontotemporal regions at 9:26 a.m.
At 11:39 PM , more prominent occipital epileptiform activity can be identified.  This is maximum in the right occipital region with a bioccipital field and the EKG lead, which demonstrates a markedly irregular and changing pattern can be differentiated from the epileptiform activity.
The epileptiform activity transitions by 2 a.m. to more of a right occipital pattern, somewhat bifid in nature.  It appears as a plus-like pattern but without clear evolution.
At approximately 2 a.m., the patient is cardioverted for atrial tachycardia.  There is some posterior periodic delta, but no additional changes.  At 4 a.m., as the patient becomes hemodynamically more stable, the EEG is richer in faster frequency activity.  When the patient is moving about, the periodic activity in the right occipital region is not as prominent.  The EEG pattern is dynamic in some sections of the record demonstrate more prominent frontal delta, more so on the left in comparison to the right.  On the morning of November 1st, the patient is interactive, moving the right arm.  The periodic epileptiform discharges, which are maximum in the right posterior quadrant persist.  Phenytoin was administered.  This did not significantly alter the overall background.
By late morning on November 1, the overall background is richer in theta frequency activity and the patient is clearly reactive and interactive, but prominent epileptiform activity in the right posterior quadrant persists without clear evolution.
Day 1 IMPRESSION:  This 1st day of continuous video EEG monitoring was remarkable for.
Initially a very slow and suppressed pattern.
Epileptiform activity, which evolves later in the recording, initially with a bioccipital pattern and then a more clearly well-defined right posterior pattern, which can be differentiated from this patient's rapid and irregular heart rate.  This is a pattern of sustained epileptiform activity
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a very epileptiform process in the right occipital region.  No well-defined clinical seizures were recorded.  EEG monitoring will continue.
DATE:  November 1st through November 2nd. LTM 14-280-2
CLINICAL HISTORY:  EEG monitoring continues for 62-year-old woman, status post respiratory arrest with right eye deviation.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenytoin and others.
Background: There is a dynamic background noted over the 24-hour section.  The overall background is diffusely slow with a variable pattern with variable amounts of theta and delta.  The initial hours of the record demonstrate a prominent epileptiform discharge in the right occipital region, in a PLED-plus like pattern.  The patient has a very abnormal EKG and at times, it is difficult to determine to differentiate between the epileptiform activity and EKG artifact; the activity at 10 a.m. is nearly continuous, although not evolving.
Tactile stimulation of the patient attenuates the right occipital sharp waves and spikes.  Spontaneous arousals were noted, also associated with a decrease in the occipital sharp waves and spikes.
On the morning of November 1st, phenytoin was initiated.  Although, there brief runs of sharp waves or rhythmic theta from the right occipital quadrant, no sustained seizures were noted.
By 7:32, as the patient drifts off to sleep, the background EEG is very slow, intermittently attenuated with frequent, irregular occipital sharp waves and spikes.
There are handful of triphasic waves emerging in the record.  In addition, sporadic sharp waves from the right central region or from the left are noted.
By the end of this epoch, the epileptiform activity seems to be fading, it is significantly more blunted.
Heart rate:  60-134 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Technically challenging EEG, but markedly abnormal.  This section of the EEG is markedly abnormal due to:
Right occipital sharp waves occurring as bursts or trains without clear clinical correlate.  These seem to attenuate with tactile stimulation.
Triphasic waves.
As the recording continues, additional sharply contoured discharges are noted as well as some rhythmic theta from the right occipital quadrant.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This initial sections of this epoch are highly epileptogenic and may represent a subclinical ictal pattern .  The later sections are significantly more blunted.  EEG monitoring will continue.
EEG NUMBER:  Long-Term Monitor 14-280-3. November 2 through November 3rd. 2014
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient remained poorly responsive, intubated with spontaneous arousals.
Background”  EEG remained markedly slow and disorganized.  On sharp waves in the initial sections of the record are more blunted, some with a posterior temporal phase reversal others T4.  There are occasional triphasic waves noted in the background.  Spontaneous arousals are associated with an increase in theta and muscle.  Tactile stimulation was performed in the early sections of the record with the epileptiform activity is significantly reduced.  Tactile stimulation was performed again at 10:17 producing an increase in muscle.
When the patient is resting quietly, the overall pattern is a mixture of theta and delta with intermittent attenuations.  Rare sharp waves are noted, including the left posterior temporal region and T3 as well as some triphasic waves.
At intermittent sections of the record, the sharp waves reappear, although they are more blunted and more typically in the right posterior quadrant.  Intermittent triphasic waves were also noted.
At approximately 11:50, the epileptiform activity starts to emerge from the EEG, perhaps associated with an arousal.  The patient has an episode of eye opening and very slow right arm movement.  The EEG does shower the appearance of periodic activity, more prominent in the right central parietal region, but the motor activity is very, very slow and the epileptiform activity does not clearly evolve.  This is seen more subtly at 11:56.  Behaviorally, the activity looks more like an arousal and when it is over, the patient seems to have drifted off to sleep.  Similar activity was noted at 12:03 with a very slow periodic activity in the right parietal region, but again with eye opening.  A similar event is noted at 2:06 with very slow eye opening on and the appearance of right sharp waves with arm elevation, although the sharp waves do not evolve.
An additional burst was noted at 2:26 again with eye opening.  This discharge is different in morphology and seems to have a bihemispheric pattern.  Little in the way of clinical signs or symptoms were noted, but again, eye opening was noted at the beginning onset of this.  Additional episodes with arousals are not necessarily associated with the same epileptiform activity.
At 5:00 a.m., while the patient is asleep, additional prominent sharp waves were noted without clear clinical correlate.
Heart rate is 90 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This report concludes the EEG monitoring, which ended on November 3rd.  Of note, the overall long-term EEG monitoring session was notable for:
A pattern of prominent right occipital sharp waves and spikes in trains, but without clear frequency evolving on October 31st, responding to phenytoin on November 1st.
A more subtle ictal pattern evolving in the late night on November 2nd and early morning hours of November 3rd with slow eye movements or eye opening, and almost purposeful elevation of the right arm and the reappearance of epileptiform activity primarily in the right occipital region, but on 1 occasion bilaterally with associated eye opening.  Because the behavior is so stereotypic, in an otherwise obtunded patient, this is a clinical seizures
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This document reports the EEG monitoring October 31, 2014 to Nov 3, 2014.  Additional reports characterize the EEG from Nov 3-6 but this is a dynamic and highly epileptogenic pattern with multiple epileptiform patterns and the emergence of new ictal patterns during the recording, though the epileptiform activity all localized to the same region.  As an aggregate, this may be considered a recurrent ictal vs status epilepticus pattern in a patient with acute severe CNS injury.





