History:	73YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O 3 DAYS OF ALTERED MENTAL STATUS,
FOUND TO HAVE INTRACRANIAL HEMORRHAGE LEFT FRONTAL.
Medications:	KEPPRA
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 17 hours from 12/15/2015 to 12/16/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the attending neurologist detection of seizures and changes in EEG
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) or LPD lateralized
periodic discharges are present in the F7/T3 with a large field at times at C3 region at a rate of 1
Hz.  The LPDs have polyspikes and  superimposed fast (+F) and superimposed semi-rhythmic
activity (+R).  During the first 12 hours of the record there was some centrally increased rhythmicity of
the beta for seconds but no clear evolution.  By 1 AM clear seizures were seen. The EEG revealed
a sudden left central maximal low amplitude rhythmic beta discharge that evolves in frequency last
for 30seconds up to a ~1 minute with a sudden end.
The video show that the patient has sudden tonic right gaze deviation during this seizures. They
became more frequent and by the end of the record he was having about 4 per hour.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 60 an IRR at first but later
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, marked, left central
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  frequent left central seizures with right tonic gaze
deviation. In addition to left large field PLEDs, this are both indicative of an epileptogenic and
irritable region over the left central and temporal region consistent with the known hemorrhage.
Lastly there is severe diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  This finding is indicative
of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
improved.




