History:	65 year old female presenting with left intracranial hemorrhage.  She had a PEA
code 7/21/14.
She now has episodes of eye flutter and right gaze deviation and upward gaze.
Medications:	No AED, no sedation
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture is present but few periods of quiescence are captured.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bifrontal regions.  No clear electrographic
seizures are present.  Frequent brief episodes of eye flutter and gaze deviation to the left are not
associated with an abnormal ictal correlate, but there is large amount of EMG artifact and subtle
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR 66.  There is nearly continuous
prominent diffuse EMG artifact that limits interpretation of the recording.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, severe, bilateral frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Artifact, EMG, nearly continuous
Other, eye flutter and gaze deviation do not have an associated ictal correlate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24-minute awake and drowsy EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse
slowing that is most pronounced over the anterior regions. These findings are etiologically
nonspecific indicators of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  No clear electrographic
seizures are present but there is frequent diffuse EMG artifact that limits interpretation of the
recording.  A repeat study with a paralyzing agent may be of benefit.  Frequent brief episodes of
eye flutter and gaze deviation to the left are not associated with an abnormal ictal correlate, but
there is large amount of EMG artifact and subtle findings could be missed.




