CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 68-year-old female with history of diabetes, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease who presents with change in mental status.
MEDICATIONS: Unknown
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 6.5-7 Hz in frequency and 50-60 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed.  Symmetrically.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage 1 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the posterior dominant rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  Stage 2 sleep is characterized by the presence of sleep spindles.  There are intermittent left anterior and mid temporal slowing at F7/T3 in wakefulness and sleep consisting of 2 Hz delta frequency lasting from 1-3 seconds. There are also occasional bursts of right temporal slowing during wakefulness. Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in no driving response.  Heart rate was 90 to 100 beats per minutes and regular.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal EEG recording due to diffuse slowing of the background and posterior dominant rhythm during wakefulness.
Independent bitemporal slowing seen during wakefulness and sleep, worse on the left side.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to toxic metabolic or infectious encephalopathy alternatively, it could be due to the effects of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease. Bitemporal slowing could be suggestive of an underlying structural abnormality dysfunction in both temporal areas. No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



