History:	28 year old man with episodes concerning for seizures.  Episodes started after a
MVA in 2013 and occur several times per day.
Medications:	Percocet PRN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Patient is asleep throughout most of the recording.  Brief waking background is characterized by a
25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-
15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  Patient very rapidly
transitions into drowsiness and sleep.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta
activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  An episode of diffuse body
weakness and incoherent speech is captured.  During the episode EEG demonstrates a mixture of
wakefulness and drowsiness and rapid transition into sleep.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with fair cooperation, and produces no effect.
Patient falls asleep during hyperventilation.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per
second (fps) does not produce any effect.
Summary of Findings:
Sleep, stage 2, nearly continuous
Event, one, patient is awake, rapidly transitions to drowsiness and sleep
No epileptiform discharges
Interpretation:
This is a NORMAL mostly asleep and briefly awake 25 minute EEG. Rapid transitions to sleep
indicate excessively drowsy patient.  Please correlate clinically and consider an underlying sleep
disorder.  An episode of diffuse body weakness and incoherent speech is captured and is associated
with an awake patient who rapidly transitions into  drowsiness and sleep.


