History:	58 year old man with a history of lymphoma and focal status epilepticus.
Medications:	KEPPRA, VERSED IVP, DEPAKOTE, PHENOBARBITAL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from ~8 am on 12/17/2013 till ~ 8 am on
12/18/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.   The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Early in the recording, the posterior dominant at best consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude
6-7 Hz activity  There is no clear AP gradient.  Additional, polymorphic diffuse theta and delta
activity is noted.  As the recording progresses, background becomes more disorganized, PDR
disappears and there is increase in theta and delta activity.  This corresponds to initiation of
phenobarbital.  At ~ 11 PM there is rapid progression to diffuse voltage attenuation and further
disappearance of faster frequencies.  This corresponds to IV push of Versed.  Period of burst-
suppression is noted starting at ~ 11:20 PM lasting ~ 20 minutes. This corresponds to the use of
anesthetic agents and patient intubation.  By the end of the recording epoch, the background
consists of frequent periods of discontinuity, low amplitude delta activity with underriding fast
activity and diffuse sleep-spindle-like waveforms.  During sleep, symmetrical sleep spindles are
Multiple electrographic seizures are captured. They last on average ~ 100-120 seconds and tend
to occur in clusters, with seizures occurring every 5-10 minutes during the seizure cluster.  Seizures
start with low amplitude sharply contoured fast activity in Fp1 electrode that gradually increases in
frequency and decreases in amplitude and evolves into rhythmic 8-9 Hz sharp activity.  Seizure
remains primarily within Fp1 electrode with some  minimal spread vs reflection into Fp2 electrode.
Seizure frequency and duration gradually decrease throughout the recording epoch (corresponding
to increase in the doses of antiepileptic medications). Last electrographic seizure occurs at ~1:25
AM.  Video review does not demonstrate clear correlate.  Patient is not formally tested during the noted seizures.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, left focal frontopolar seizures.  Last at ~1:25 AM.
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, becomes more severe as the recording progresses



Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour video EEG due to increasing degree of diffuse
background slowing and frequent left focal frontopolar seizures, with last recorded seizure at ~1:25
AM. Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific but in this patient at least partially is related to the medication effect.  There is
epileptogenic focus in the left frontopolar region.  The results were conveyed to the primary team.


