LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  02/11/2013 from approximately 6 p.m. until 7 p.m., 02/11/2013 approximately 9 p.m. until 10 p.m., recording restarted on 02/12/2013 and patient recorded from approximately 4 p.m. until 02/14/2013 until about 7 p.m. Total number of hours of recording were approximately 17 from 02/11/2013 until 02/14/2013.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The patient was equipped with an event button.  Medical staff notes and nursing staff notes were reviewed.  The recording was reviewed several times during the 17 hour recording.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 58-year-old woman with bilateral MCA territory strokes, now with fluctuating mental status, concerning for clinical seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Include ampicillin, gentamicin, heparin subcu.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude 9 to 9.5 Hertz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient that is unstable.  Additional diffuse polymorphic theta activity is captured.  Sleep is brief and segmented.  During sleep symmetrical vertex waves, sleep spindles, and slow wave sleep are captured.  Frequent polymorphic theta and delta activity is captured over the bilateral frontal/anterior temporal regions.  No electrocardiographic seizures are captured.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  A single EKG lead demonstrates intermittent premature QRS complexes.
FINDINGS:
Mild diffuse slowing.
Moderate bilateral frontal/anterior temporal slowing.
No electrocardiographic seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and asleep 17 hour continuous EEG recording due to mild diffuse slowing and intermittent moderate bilateral frontal/anterior temporal slowing.  Mild diffuse slowing indicates nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal slowing indicates underlying focal dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology, and in this patient is consistent with a history of recent bilateral MCA territory strokes.  No electrocardiographic seizures were captured.



