CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 29-year-old male with multiple intracranial abnormalities and daily seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, phenobarbital, Topamax, Trileptal, Clobazam, Klonopin, Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Mother reported that the patient had a minor seizure the day before.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal.  The right hemisphere lacks the normal developmental milestones for an adult of this age.  The left hemisphere demonstrates high amplitude epileptiform activity with high amplitude versus slowing and a discrete spike in the left hemisphere, this is nearly isoelectric at T1.  Using an average reference, this appears in the left hemisphere, maximum a bit anterior temporally with a poly spike component and a generous field is spread throughout the left hemisphere.  The epileptiform activity is always maximum on the left but with volume conduction appears in the right frontocentral region as well.  High amplitude bursts were noted as the patient was drifting off to sleep without clear clinical correlate.  Some discharges are maximum in the left frontal region and those are more likely to spread to the right.  In some sections of the record, there is a lower voltage beta pattern with some left frontal central theta.  Bursts of epileptiform activity may be brief lasting more than 2 seconds or more prolonged and seemed to increase as the patient drifts off to sleep.  Features of sleep include an increase in beta frequency activity.  Vertex waves were noted.  At the close of the record, the patient seemed to be drifting off to sleep with more of a theta frequency pattern.
Heart rate 108 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Prominent epileptiform activity primarily from the left hemisphere with a high amplitude on the left hemisphere slow spike, wave, and anterior temporal spike.
Left frontal spike.
Generalized background slowing.
A dynamic pattern with multiple different patterns including more of a theta pattern with focal slowing on the left.
Rare discrete sharp waves at T4
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a severe disturbance of cerebral function.  As was seen with previous EEG monitoring, the activity seems to be much more prominent from the left hemisphere.



