History:	18 year old woman with a history of seizures since 6 years of age.  Seizure
frequency has recently increased.  Patient's compliance with antiepileptic
medications is questionable.
Medications:	Keppra and Lamictal
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm reaches 10 Hz moderate amplitude alpha activity.  The AP gradient
is unstable.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 4-7Hz activity is present throughout the recording
and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow
waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right temporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Less prominent theta and delta activity is noted over the left
temporal region.  Frequent right anterior temporal moderate-to-high amplitude sharp waves with
after going slow waves are captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F8/T4 and F4 electrodes.
Frequency, amplitude and field of these sharp waves increase during  drowsiness and
hyperventilation, they become semirhythmic occurring in brief runs with a regular repetition rate of ~
1.5-2 Hz and low amplitude synchronous sharp waves appear over the left temporal region.  No
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation.  It produces increase in
diffuse slowing, accentuates focal slowing in the right temporal region and results in increase in
frequency of right anterior temporal sharp waves.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal, mild-to-moderate
Sharp waves, frequent, right temporal, anterior, increase in frequency with hyperventilation and
No stage 2 sleep
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 32 minutes awake and drowsy EEG due to mild-to-moderate diffuse
slowing, continuous moderate right temporal and mild-to-moderate left temporal slowing and
frequent right anterior temporal epileptiform discharges that increase in periodicity and frequency
during hyperventilation and drowsiness.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to moderate diffuse
cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral
dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  Continuous focal slowing and frequent epileptiform
discharges in the right anterior temporal region are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal
structural abnormality and,  in the proper clinical context,  suggest the diagnosis of localization-
related epilepsy.  No seizures are captured. Electrographic seizures are captured.


