History:	43 YO WOMAN WHO IN APRIL 2008 HAD THE WRONG MEDS - CAUSED HER TO
HAVE A SZ. DX WITH SZ WHEN SHE WAS YOUNG, ONLY HAD 2-3 AND THEN
WAS SZ FREE. PT HAS BEEN SZ FREE SINCE 2008. PMH: BLOOD CLOTS NO
FAM HX OF SZ.
Medications:	TOPAMAX, LAMICTAL, SEROQUEL, NEXIUM, VIT D, VICODIN (PRN), KLONOPIN
(PRN), WARFARIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and
subtemporal chain and EKG electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation,
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Frequent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left frontotemporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness. At times sharply countoured and Wickets seen. No clear epileptiform
activity seen.  Occasional polymorphic delta activity is present in the right fronto temporal region
during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving.  HR
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, left frontotemporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, right frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent focal slowing in the left
frontotemporal region and occasional focal slowing in the right frontotemporal region.  These
findings are indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.  Please
note that there are frequent sharply countoured activity and wickets on the left frontotemporal
region but no clear epileptiform discharges.





