CLINICAL HISTORY: 55 year old woman with progressive epileptic encephalopathy,
admitted on 11th with status epilepticus, anemia and low Dilantin level, status post 12
mg of Ativan.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Digoxin, Ativan
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 1 0-20
system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic
stimulation are performed. The patient is initially quite somnolent and over the course
of the record, is increasingly awake. This is a 2 hour EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing begins, the overall background is
low voltage, relatively slow. The overall pattern includes a lower voltage with central
beta. There was a superimposed asymmetry which is at times is somewhat subtle with
a bit more delta in the right hemisphere than the left particular right posterior quadrant.
At slow taper speeds, it is possible to identify subtle, right central temporal sharp waves.
Over the course of the record, the patient is a bit more responsive. There are some
sharp wave contoured delta noted on the right. The beta is a little asymmetric, a bit
more prominent in the left frontocentral region and at the midline in comparison to the
right. Stimulation of the patient over the course of the record produces an alerting
response with the patient starting to move about and again intermittent asymmetry with
lower voltage flow rhythmic delta activity from the right are identified. As the recording
continues, the patient waxes and wanes drifting in and out of sleep and there is some
sharply contoured activity at C4 as well as T4. By 9:38, the patient is beginning to be a
bit more awake. Occasional right anterior temporal sharp waves start to emerge. Some
of these at T2, but others are a bit more prominent at C4. In addition, a bit of rhythmic
slowing in the right central temporal region can be identified. Sharply contoured slowing
is noted as the patient transitions in and out of sleep and by 9:57, right anterior temporal
sharp waves are identified. There are a handful of wave forms which seem╖ to have a
bilateral frontotemporal representation and may be either maximally on the left or start
on the left and transition to the right. Higher amplitude more characteristic right anterior
temporal spike and slow wave complexes are observed by 10:04.
HR: 98 bpm



