History:	55 year old male with right hemisphere brain injury, and recurrent electrographic
Medications:	Ativan, Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is obvious hemispheric asymmetry characterized by continuous focal delta over the right
hemisphere and theta/delta seen over the left hemisphere. A fragmented posterior dominant
rhythm is seen on the left from 7-8Hz.  The amplitude asymmetries suggest a right breach artifact.
No normal sleep architecture was present.
There are rhythmic to semi-rhythmic right occipitotemporal PLEDs varying from 1-1.5 Hz maximal
at T4-T6. There are no overt clinical manifestations associated with the PLEDs.  There are
numerous brief electrographic seizures (e.g., 6:22AM, 6:32AM, 6:38AM, 3:02PM) which evolve out
of the right PLEDs into 2-3Hz spikes, each lasting 10-20 seconds.  There are no overt clinical
manifestations associated with these discharges.  By 5PM, the PLEDs have slowed to 0.5-1Hz and
there were no further electrographic seizures seen.
On several occasions the patient sits up, looks around and attempts to move. These are not
associated with ictal EEG changes.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), nearly continuous, right posterior quadrant
Seizure, intermittent, right posterior quadrant
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG due to focal right hemisphere slowing, diffuse
bihemispheric slowing, a right breach artifact, right sided PLEDs, and right posterior quadrant
electrographic seizures. Over the past 24 hours, the record has improved. These findings suggest a
structural lesion over the right hemisphere with a highly epileptogenic, irritative focus.  The frequent seizures would suggest resolving or improving electrographic status epilepticus  These
findings were conveyed to the primary team.

