CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 22-year-old woman with childhood onset absence epilepsy, not controlled by Lamictal, Keppra, topiramate, or Zarontin.  Currently, seizure-free.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  A 20-minute digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.  This patient finds photic stimulation to be scary, but did not experience any clinical events during photic stimulation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  The patient appears to be anxious throughout the EEG.  Sleep was not obtained.
Hyperventilation was performed with good effort, producing an increase in amplitude of the background.
Photic stimulation:  The patient reports that photic stimulation makes her very anxious.  During this 7 hertz photic stimulation, there is an isolated bursts of frontally predominant 3 Hz spike and wave activity.  A single burst was noted.  Following this, the patient began to blink during 9 hertz and subsequent stimulation.  She reported feeling very anxious and nervous.  Overall, the photic stimulation section is remarkable for a photic driving response and 2 isolated spike and wave complexes, but the patient's behavior with frequent blinking and covering her eyes and face with her hands made identification of spike and wave discharges more difficult.
Heart rate 96-104 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is remarkable for:
An anxious individual who could not get to sleep.
Two spike and wave complexes in the context of frequent blinking during photic stimulation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is the 3rd EEG for this individual.  No definitive epileptiform discharges were noted in the 2013 report, although there was a suspicion of spike and wave activity at 19 and 21
hertz.  In 2011, she did have photoparoxysmal activity.  The EEG today supports the ongoing presence of a photoparoxysmal phenomenon supportive of a generalized or inherited mechanism for epilepsy.






