History:	61 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O GEN SZ W/ NO LOC. DENIES B/B
INCONT. ON 7/16/14. PMHX SIG FOR TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY, B/L SKULL
DEFECT. NOW FOR FOLLOW UP EEG, PT HAS C/C OF CHEST PAIN.
Medications:	No AEDs
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity,
frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes
intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere, maximally at T3, during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. There is an associated increase in faster frequencies
consistent with a breach.  Very frequent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right central
region, maximally at C4, during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. There is an associated
increase in faster frequencies consistent with a breach.  At time the focal slowing is sharply
contoured but not clearly epileptiform.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
induces symmetric photic driving.  EKG 60
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, continuous, left hemispheric, and associated breach.
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right central, and associated breach.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of continuous focal slowing in the
left hemisphere maximal in the midtemporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural
lesion in this region.  There is also very frequent  focal slowing in the right central region.  This
finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly


