CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 59-year-old male with multiple strokes, recurrent embolic strokes, agitation and worsening mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenylephrine, Keppra, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG was performed in the long-term monitoring unit using standard seizure and spike detection software and 1 channel of EKG.  This was a technically challenging, but acceptable, EEG.  The patient had 1 period of agitation which compromised the EEG quality but the overall recording is of good quality.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The initial hours of the EEG demonstrated an awake pattern.  There is eye opening and interactive patient.  There is an asymmetry.  The overall EEG is relatively low voltage from the right.  It is higher amplitude on the left with a bit more irregular slowing.  Some of this is somewhat rhythmic in nature.
The patient is quite agitated at 10:00 a.m.  The focal slowing is a bit more prominent at that time.
Following medical management, the patient is significantly drowsier.  As the patient drifts into stage 2 sleep in the first hours of recording, the focality between the 2 hemispheres remains with a bit higher amplitude slowing on the left compared to the right.  Stage 2 sleep with spindles was achieved.
The final hours of recording on the 12th demonstrated a patient who transitions in and out of sleep.  There are features of stage 2 sleep noted.  The intermittent focal slowing or at times more persistent focal slowing is noted from the left hemisphere relative to the right.
HEART RATE 60 BPM.
IMPRESSIONS:  This continuous video EEG monitoring session is remarkable for:
An initially bilaterally slow background improving over time with ultimately the emergence of a 9 hertz alpha rhythm in the right hemisphere on the morning of the 12th.
Intermittent and at times nearly continuous focal slowing from the left hemisphere at times rhythmic.
Periods of generalized background slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a dynamic process.  To some extent a generalized slowing has improved and the patient is more awake with a better organized pattern on the right.  This may reflect medical management or the use of pharmacologic sedation.



