History:	75 year old woman with progressive worsening of mental status.  Facial twitching
(unspecified side) was noted earlier today.
Medications:	Ativan (given several hours earlier)
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Asleep only, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Description:
There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  There is no
PDR or AP gradient.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of moderate amplitude
theta and delta activity with underriding fast activity.  Delta activity is most pronounced anteriorly.
The background over the right consists of a mixture of moderate amplitude theta and delta activity,
paucity of faster frequencies and attenuation over the temporal region and continuous high
amplitude temporoparietal sharp waves with aftergoing  slow waves (maximal scalp negativity over
T4 and P4 leads).  Three electrographic seizures are captured, OCCURRING at 10:22:36 am, 10:24:02
am and 10:25:15 am and lasting ~39 sec, 26 sec and 33 seconds, respectively.  Seizure do not
have a clear clinical correlate.  Electrographically, they start with increase in frequency and
rhythmicity of right temporoparietal sharp waves.  They rapidly evolve in rhythmic 4-5 Hz activity
that spreads throughout the right hemisphere.  Seizure #3 ends with high amplitude rhythmic ~ 2.5
Hz T4/C4/P4 spike and wave complexes.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right temporal
Sharp waves, continuous, right temporoparietal
Seizure, few, right temporal, anterior, 3 seizures, ~ 30 sec each, no clinical correlate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable 23-minute EEG due to (1) moderate diffuse slowing; (2) focal right
temporal slowing: (3) continuous right temporoparietal epileptiform discharges and (4) three focal
right midtemporoparietal brief (~ 30 sec) seizures without a clear clinical correlate.  Diffuse slowing
finding is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
There is an epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the right temporoparietal region.  Patient was
placed on continuous EEG monitoring.





