History:	66 YR FEMALE WITH PMHX OF SZS --2' TO MVA/ TBI 1971.  PT IN COMA 4
MONTHS.  PT HAS EXPERIENCED INCREASE IN SZ OVER LAST YR. EVERY DY OR
2. PT DESCRIBES HAS NOCTURNAL GTC/ AND SPS DURING DY. STARING AND
MOUTH MM/HAND MM.
Medications:	Phenobarbital, tramadol, Vitamins
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV,  at best reaches 8Hz alpha rhythm, which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present diffusely
and in excess.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta
activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right mid-temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. At times it appears to become monomorphic and
rhythmic.  Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present independently in the left midtemporal
region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent spike and sharp waves are
present in the right central and temporal region, with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at
C4 and T4. At times they have a frontal field and occur in short runs.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates focal
slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent, right, central and temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, left temporal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of frequent epileptiform discharges in the
right central and temporal region with a large field.  These findings are indicative of a potentially
epileptogenic focus in this region, and given the clinical history of partial seizures, are consistent
with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy.  In addition there is evidence of independent left
temporal focal cerebral dysfunction and diffuse cerebral dysfunction. These findings are non-specific with regards to etiology.  HR is 54

