INTRODUCTION: A 47-hour long-term EEG monitoring was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal electrodes and EKG electrodes. Continued seizure detection software was utilized and supplemented by patient's activator alarm, nursing observation, and testing. The video/EEG files were reviewed on a daily basis.
BRIEF HISTORY: A 39-year-old woman with history of diabetes, asthma, and migraines, presents with history of seizure for more than 15 years not responding to multiple medications including zonisamide, Keppra, Klonopin, gabapentin, and lyrica, here for seizure classification.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The posterior dominant rhythm seem is 9 Hz with a 20 to 60 microvolts amplitude and it is reactive to eye opening. Normal frontocentral beta seen. Sleep is seen characterized by stage I, stage II and deeper stages of sleep. Activating procedures including hyperventilation and photic stimulation revealed no abnormal discharges.
INTERICTAL NONEPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None.
INTERICTAL EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None.
ICTAL: Nonepileptic seizures: Two events.
SEIZURE NUMBER, DATE, AND TIME: Nonepileptic seizure #1: September 22, 2011, at 18:30. The patient presses the alarm and complains that she feels as if she starting to have a seizure. The RNs comes into the room, she is not responsive to name, verbal commands or follows motor commands. While being questioned, she sights multiple times and at times her left hand trembles and her face twitches. This lasts for about four minutes and then she slowly starts following commands. She does not remember the code word. She rapidly became alert and oriented x3.
EEG: During this episode reveals a normal awake EEG.
Seizure #2: September 23, 2011, at 21:38. The patient complained of having a right frontal headache and pressed the alarm button. As the nurse approached the patient, the patient sighted and was not responsive to verbal or motor commands. Simultaneously she would shake her head side to side. This tasted for about two minutes and then the patient slowly started moving her left arm on command and answering questions; however, she complained of a severe headache. The EEG during the event revealed a normal awake EEG.
IMPRESSION:
1. The interictal EEG reveals no abnormalities.
2. The ictal EEG reveals two events, which had no electrographic correlate.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This is a normal awake and sleep video-EEG. The episodes of unresponsiveness described above had no EEG correlate and are diagnostic of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures.



