History:	39 YR OLD MALE R HANDED. PMHX.ASTHMA.  PT HAD WITNESSED TONIC
CLONIC SEIZURE THIS AM
60 CM HEAD
Medications:	DILANTIN, KEPPRA, VALPROIC ACID
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 12 hours from 12/15/2014 to 12/16/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.    All automatically detected events
were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	1
Description of pushbutton events
See episode description.
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.  At
the beginning of the records there is excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present.
This improves over time.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  The record commences with the
patient having an episode of irregular arm and body shaking with occasional back arching and
closed eyes. This shaking intermittently worsens in severity and then improves. The event lasts for
about 10 minutes.  There is no EEG correlate to the event.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 66
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is a NORMAL EEG, awake, drowsy, and asleep. The episode captured above had no EEG
correlate and is clinically consistent with a psychogenic non-epileptic event.





