CLINICAL HISTORY: A 56-year-old male with lifelong epilepsy. The patient suffered a skull fracture 8 years ago after which seizures transitioned from staring spells to tonic-clonic seizures. The patient has a cluster of tonic-clonic seizures with tongue biting every 1-3 months and will have 2-4 seizures at that time. Most recent seizure yesterday.
MEDICATIONS: Zonisamide, Motrin, and Actonel.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. This Is a routine. Outpatient, 26-minute EEG capturing wakefulness through sleep. This Is a technically satisfactory EEG aside from some muscle and T1-T2 impedance issues.
DESCRIPTION RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a 9.5 Hz alpha rhythm. There Is an intermittent subtle disruption of the alpha rhythm noted in the right hemisphere, particularly in the right posterior quadrant There is also. infrequent subtle focal slowing noted in the right posterior quadrant, with some underlying slowing noted.
There is a suggestion of a breech rhythm with slight accentuation of the beta frequency activity in the right frontal region, although there also some muscle artifact.
Drowsiness is characterized by slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm followed by brief vertex waves.
Hyperventilation produces a small amount of background slowing and subtly accentuates the focal features noted from the right hemisphere. Photic stimulation elicits a driving response, which is slightly asymmetric at times, slightly more vigorous on the left compared to the right.
Heart rate 78 bpm.
IMPRESSION: This Is a subtly abnormal EEG due to: Focal slowing noted from the right, characterized by disruption of faster frequency activity on the right as well as rare, right focal theta/delta.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG a structural or process on the right affecting gray and white matter. The beta asymmetry suggests that there may have been a breech rhythm in the context of a skull defect. This is the 2nd EEG for this patient. A previous EEG in 2011 was within normal limits. Neither EEG has demonstrated sharp waves or spikes.



