History:	79 year old woman who presents with symptoms concerning for a stroke versus
Medications:	no AEDs
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower
waveforms at lower amplitudes over the right hemisphere.  The waking background over the left
hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic variable amplitude theta and delta activity.  The
waking background over the right hemisphere consists of a mixture of low amplitude polymorphic
delta and slow theta activity.  No normal sleep architecture is present but periods of quiescence are
A single sharp transient waveform with a very broad field is captured over the left frontal region.
Synchronous downward deflection is noted in the single EKG lead, however, no movement is
noted upon video review.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There is change in the background
activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.  A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric
Attenuation, continuous, right hemispheric
Sharp transients, one, left frontal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable 23-minute EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing that is most
pronounced over the right hemisphere.  Additional voltage attenuation is noted over the right
hemisphere. Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing and attenuation over the right hemisphere
indicates focal structural lesion in this region, possibly related to a fluid collection between the
brain and skull (such as SDH, empyema).  The presence of a single left frontal sharp transient
waveform is of uncertain clinical significance and may be artifactual.

