CLINICAL HISTORY:  19 year old female who presented to Episcopal with ingestion of Cymbalta and Wellbutrin in a suicide attempt, had a seizure and was given Ativan, now with involuntary jerking movements.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Versed, Lovenox, Pantoprazole.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Change in mental status and seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while minimally responsive.  No activating procedures were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some movement artifact.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or normal frontocentral beta.  At times intermixed between the slow delta, there appears to be a central 13 Hz discharge lasting about 2-3 seconds with the appearance of spindles morphology.  There is no normal sleep activity seen.  No activating procedures were performed.  During the study, she is also stimulated with noxious stimuli and calling her name which appears to cause her to react in the video, but no clear change in the frequencies of the EEG seen.  Please note that also during the study, she has episodes of involuntary jerking and movement which has no epileptiform EEG correlate.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Generalized slow waves and intermittent short bursts of central beta activity.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Generalized slowing and central beta bursts.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  However, the central bursts of beta are suggestive of a medication-induced encephalopathy.  In addition, the episodes of shaking and agitation do not appear to have an epileptic correlate and the clinical presentation seen on video is not one of typically seen with seizures.  No epileptiform discharges were seen.  Lastly, the EEG appears much improved compared to the one performed yesterday.



