History:	57 year old man with a history of a large left MCA stroke and seizures.  Patient now
has episodes concerning for seizures.
Medications:	Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Ambulatory (outpatient), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Ambulatory EEG
Continuous ambulatory EEG recording was performed for 1 days.  Automatic seizure and
epileptiform detection algorithms were employed.  The Persyst Reveal spike and seizure detection
algorithm was utilized to screen the EEG for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform
discharges.   Patient diaries were reviewed, containing descriptions of any events and patient
activities during the recording period.  All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by
# Push button events	1
Description of pushbutton events
practice event
Description:
There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right consists of fragmented 8-9 Hz activity posteriorly, expected AP gradient
and excess polymorphic theta activity.  The background over the left consists of fragmented 7 Hz
theta posteriorly, poor AP gradient and excess polymorphic theta and delta activity.  The latter are
especially pronounced over the left frontocentral region.  Sleep is characterized disappearance of
movement and eye blink artifact, increase in diffuse theta activity.  The expected sleep architecture
is not captured.  Sleep is fragmented.
No clinical or electrographic ictal events are captured.
There are continuous O1 lead, T5 lead and diffuse low amplitude EMG-like artifacts.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric, especially frontocentral
No electrographic seizures
Event, not recorded
Artifact, electrode
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24-hour ambulatory EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and moderate focal
left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left frontocentral region. Diffuse slowing is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal
slowing  is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the left and is consistent with a prior history of
a stroke.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.  No push button events recorded.  Lead
artifact limits EEG interpretation.  If suspicion for seizures remains high and event frequency high -
patient may benefit for an inpatient EMU (epilepsy monitoring unit) admission for better event
characterization.




