:
History:	42 YO MALE W / HX OF ETOH AND SI  FOUND ON RAILROAD TRACKS IN
PULSELESS ARREST. PMHX: HEP C, DEPRESSION, ETOH ABUSE, MULTIPLE
CRC ADMISSION FOR SI, PREVIOUS CRANIECTOMY RIGHT POSTERIOR?
Medications:	FAMOTIDINE, VECURONIUM, MIDAZOLAM, ASA, UNASYN,  MAGNESIUM
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 21 hours from 03/17/2014 to 03/18/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by marked
diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior
gradient of frequencies.  During the last hours of the record there is more diffuse attenuation and
lastly burst suppression pattern. The bursts last 1-5 seconds and consist of bilateral delta with the
focal finding described below.  As the record continues the amplitude has continued to markedly
decrease.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
In the burst there is polymorphic theta/delta activity present in the right hemisphere maximal in the
mid and posterior temporal region.  There is an asymmetry of amplitude, higher on the right
consistent with a breach.  No seizures.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 90
Summary of Findings:
Burst-suppression pattern, continuous, severe
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked, right temporal, posterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 21hour video-EEG because of focal slowing in the right posterior temporal
and midtemporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region. In
addition there is  diffuse background attenuation and a burst suppression pattern.  These findings
are etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which may at least be
in part due to medication effects.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



