CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 60-year-old man who presents with seizure-like activity, and found to have left subdural hematoma.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan and valproic acid.
INTRODUCTION:  Long-term video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside in the ICU setting using a standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This long-term tracing captures wakefulness through stage 2 sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 9-9.5 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates the eye opening.  There is a large amount of low amplitude diffuse beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness was characterized by diffuse background slowing. shifting, and shifting of the posterior dominant rhythm to anterior head regions and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  A stage 1 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm and slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact, as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves and posts.  Stage 2 sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles.  There are occasional bursts of left posterior, temporal and left parietal slowing 2-3 Hz in frequency, lasting for 1-2 seconds during drowsiness.  No epileptiform abnormalities or electrographic seizures are identified in this long-term recording.  Heart rate was 90-95 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing wakefulness through stage 2 sleep due to the presence of left temporoparietal slowing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform abnormalities or electrographic seizures were identified in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to an underlying structural abnormality in the subcortical white matter of the left hemisphere.  No epileptiform abnormalities or electrographic seizures were seen in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medications effect including benzodiazepine, barbiturates, or could be due to anxiety or hyperthyroidisms.  Clinical correlation is recommended.



