CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 41-year-old female with a history of multiple sclerosis and recurrent seizures.  The purpose of the long-term recording was to evaluate for possible recurrent seizures.  His seizures etiology consists of generalized tonic-clonic movements with excessive salivation followed by unresponsiveness.  The events may last from 10 to 20 minutes in duration.  She also has intermittent leg spasms from multiple sclerosis.
MEDICATIONS:  Baclofen, nitrofurantoin, Oxycontin, Keppra, and Xanax.  During this recording, the Keppra dose decreased from 1500 twice a day to 500 twice a day.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous 24-hour bedside EEG monitoring was performed.  This EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement with one-channel EKG monitoring.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Interelectrode background consists of 8.5-11 Hz activity, 20-50 microvolts in amplitude and well formed posterior dominant rhythm that attenuated symmetrically with eye opening.  There was moderate amount of low amplitude beta activity in the frontocentral regions.  Drowsiness was characterized by diffuse background attenuation.  Shifting of the posterior dominant rhythm to anterior head regions and admixed low-voltage beta activity, more prominent in the frontocentral channel.  A stage 1 sleep was characterized by vertex sharp waves.  Stage 2 sleep was characterized by additional sleep spindles and K complexes.  Deeper stages of sleep are characterized by increasing amounts of delta activity.  There was occasional anterior and mid temporal focal slowing at F7 and T3, 52-60 microvolt in amplitude lasting for 1-2 seconds during wakefulness.  Heart rate was 80-100 beats per minute and regular.
CLINICAL EVENTS:  No events were captured during this recording.
IMPRESSION:  This video EEG monitoring study was abnormal due to occasional left temporal slowing during wakefulness.  No seizures were captured.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Left temporal slowing is suggestive of an underlying structural functional abnormalities.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No seizures are captured.  The lack of epileptiform abnormalities does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.  If clinical concern remains, further  video EEG monitoring may be helpful to capture atypical spell.



