History:	56 YO MALE WAS AT A BAR WHEN HE COLLAPSED OFF STOOL.HE WAS DOWN
5 MIN. BEFORE EMS ARRIVAL AT WHICH TIME HE WAS FOUND TO BE IN
ASYSTOLE.CPR WAS INITIATED W 3 ROUNDS OF EPI AND ROSC WAS
ACHIEVED. UPON ARRIVAL HE WAS HYPOTHERMIC 94.3 & LATER
Medications:	Dilantin and Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 34 hours from 6/2/15 to 6/4/15.   Nursing-initiated
event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was
available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and
EEG technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Periodic central maximal (with a large posterior field) synchronous
complex polyphasic sharp waves with a repetition rate of 1-3 Hz.  There is a myogenic artifact
intermittently associated to the discharges and on video the patient exhibit subtle jerks, consistent
with myoclonus.  At times the discharges almost completely disappeared however with  tactile, or
painful stimuli they would return or increase in frequency and intensity.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 84.
Summary of Findings:
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges) central
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  continuous periodic epileptiform discharges (PEDs) that
are central maximal with associated myoclonus and marked diffuse slowing.  In the setting of
hypoxic injury these findings are indicative of diffuse cortical irritability and dysfunction which is
suggestive of a very poor prognosis.
HYPOTENSIVE 59/31




