History:	80 year old woman who presented with right sided weakness in the setting of severe hyperglycemia. Left subdural hematoma was subsequently found. Patient was less responsive this am, in the setting of relative hypoglycemia.


Medications: Sedation: EEG Type: Technique:


Ativan 2 mg yesterday., Labetalol, protonix


Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes




Description:
There is right to left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms and voltage attenuation over the left.  The background over the right consists of 9 Hz PDR with normal AP gradient and excess theta activity.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of attenuated polymorphic theta, delta and occasional alpha activity with absent AP gradient.  No normal sleep architecture is present.

Nearly continuous -1 Hz quasi-periodic low amplitude poorly formed and localized sharp waves are noted over the left, with maximal scalp negativity over -C3/P3 electrodes (1Hz quasi-PLEDs). They do not evolve temporally or spatially.

Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  An irregular heart rate is noted on a single EKG lead.

Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing,  polymorphic, continuous,  moderate
Attenuation,  left hemispheric
Cardiac arrhythmia
Other, 1Hz left centroparietal quasi-PLEDs

Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and continuous moderate left hemispheric moderate focal left hemispheric slowing, attenuation and left centroparietal quasi-periodic epileptiform discharges. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.   Focal left hemispheric slowing, attenuation and epileptiform discharges indicate focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, with increased epileptogenic potential.  Voltage attenuation could indicate a fluid collection between a skull and a brain, such as hematoma, empyema, etc.  Patient will be placed on continuous EEG monitoring.  An irregular heart rate is noted on a single EKG lead.















