History:	66 year old with a right ICH and seizures.  Patient is in status epilepticus post right
craniotomy.
Medications:	Keppra, Ativan, Dilantin
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~19 hours from 03/13/2015 till 03/14/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower
waveforms over the left.  Early in the recording, the background over the left is attenuated and
consists of polymorphic very low amplitude theta and delta activity seen primarily anteriorly as well
as frequent periods of brief background discontinuity.  As the recording progresses, faster waveforms
appear over the left hemisphere.  The background over the right consists of a mixture of
polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude mixture of theta, delta and alpha activity and frequent
periods of brief background discontinuity.  Periods of discontinuity disappear as the recording
progresses.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Frequent right hemispheric (midtemporal-central focus) seizures are captured early in the
recording.  They last on average ~ 60-70 seconds.  At the end of some of the seizures rhythmic
mouth/ lower face jerking is seen.  Last seizure is occurs at ~3:30pm.  Electrographically, seizures
start with ~2 Hz moderate amplitude rhythmic delta over the right midtemporal region.  This activity
gradually increases in frequency and amplitude and spreads throughout the right hemisphere (
maximal scalp negativity over T4, C4, P4 electrodes).  Additionally, continuous 1-2 Hz quasi-
periodic right midtemporal/ centro-parietal sharp waves (quasi-PEDs) are noted early in the
recording.  As the recording progresses, epileptiform discharges become less periodic and frequent.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, right, midtemporal/ centroparietal, last seizure at ~ 3:30 pm
Breach artifact, right frontotemporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, severe, right hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, severe, improved by the end of the recording
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), right, much improved at the end

Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video ~ 19 hour EEG due to severe diffuse slowing, continuous
right hemispheric slowing, right midtemporal/ centro-parietal epileptiform discharges and focal
seizures (focal status epilepticus) that are seen early in the . recording.  Diffuse slowing is indicative
of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but at least partially
related to the medication effect.  There is focal epileptogenic structural abnormality over the right
midtemporal/ centro-parietal region.  Breach rhythm is secondary to the skull defect.  These
findings were conveyed to the primary team.





