AGE: 36 y.o.
SEX: male
DATE OF STUDY: 09/01/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Outpatient
EEG TYPE: Routine awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1274
HISTORY:
36 y.o. male with a history of TBI s/p decompressive right craniectomy (SDH; no bone flap), s/p left craniotomy (EDH) 7/15. He awoke 8/1 with his scalp bleeding and not knowing what happened; he was found to have a right temporal intraparenchymal hemorrhage. PMH: TBI, PTSD, Hep C, substance abuse (actively using heroin), depression, anxiety.
MEDICATIONS:
Tegretol Keppra Celexa Tramadol
Klonopin (ran out)
Last used heroin 2 days ago
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) recording using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes was performed utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9-10 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes present during Stage II sleep. Slow wave sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.
There is continuous polymorphic slowing broadly distributed over the right fronto-temporal region .
There is occasional milder left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing.
Higher amplitude, faster frequency activity is seen independently over the bi-central regions (F3-C3, F4-C4 max) .
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES :
Hyperventilation: Not performed
Photic Stimulation : Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional abnormalities .
EVENTS :
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 42 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake-and-asleep routine EEG due to:
Continuous polymorphic slowing broadly distributed over the right fronto-temporal region.
Occasional milder left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing.
Higher amplitude, faster frequency activity is seen independently over the bi-central regions (F3-C3, F4-C4 max) .
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of right fronto-temporal cerebral dysfunction and additional milder left fronto-temporal
cerebral dysfunction. Bi-central high-amplitude fast frequency activity is likely a breach rhythm and is consistent with this patient 's known prior history of bilateral skull surgeries.



