CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 47-year-old, left-handed, motorcyclist, day 9 post-subdural hematoma evacuation, right parietal ischemia, diffuse brain swelling.  
MEDICATIONS: Insulin, Labetalol, Morphine, and Propofol drip. 
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. 
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates a very slow delta background with smaller amounts of theta.  Despite the breach with accentuation of theta from the right, in the initial portions of the record, there is very slow, sharply contoured periodic delta at O2/T6/P4 with a periodicity of 0.45 to 0.75.  Although there is no mention during the record of changes in the patient’s medications, the periodic delta becomes less high amplitude and less sharply contoured with the treatments that are initiated.  The overall background remains continuous with again the identifiable breach and a pattern primarily of slow delta.  There is a clear change in the pattern at 2:00 AM and at this time in the record, although there is some artifact particularly at the C3 electrode, there is an increase in 4 Hz activity from the right hemisphere and an overall improvement in the overall background.  In addition, the periodic activity has improved dramatically.  
As the recording continues, the theta frequency activity is more prominent in the right central parietal regions, and there is a right central sharp wave seen in the setting of the breach rhythm.  Sampling at 6:00 AM again shows that the very slow periodic delta from the right posterior quadrant has resolved and there are occasional right frontocentral sharp waves seen in primarily a theta frequency background.  By 8:23 AM, some of that very slow periodic delta activity has begun to reappear and towards the close of the sampling, that activity seems to be maximal in the right frontocentral region.  
HR:  120 BPM.
	IMPRESSION: Overall, initial improvement not all of which was sustained in this EEG with a treatment of Propofol with the disappearance of slow, periodic activity in the right posterior region, with a very large field of spread to faster frequency activity.   
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG may represent a subtle form of status epilepticus with improvement with the use of benzodiazepine.  Of note, however, the activity seen in the right occipital region was beginning to reappear in the right frontal region by the close of the record.  
Compared to a previous study, the previous study identified a ventilator artifact, which had a different appearance and had a different periodicity of 0.58 to 0.6 Hz.  That activity didn’t localize and had a periodicity much more compatible with an artifact.  


