History:	73 YR MALE WITH CHANGE IN MS. APHASIC,  PMHX: HTN, DM, HLD, CHF.
FOUND TO BE HAVING SZS. MRI NEG
Medications:	Keppra, Dilantin
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic,
obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8-9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  There is a moderate amount of symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz
activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm
attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.  Brief
Left hemispheric focal slowing (theta and delta range) is seen intermittently following
electrographic seizures (see below).  There are at least 11 electrographic seizures seen between
3PM and 9PM e.g.,  at 3:05, 3:39, 3:59, 4:25, 4:52, 5:20, 5:52, 6:18, 6:46, 7:18, 7:47PM.  These
all start on the left hemisphere likely frontotemporal, and last approximately 60-90 seconds. There
is post-ictal slowing seen.  Clinically, the patient has no obvious correlate but is seen to stare and
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG, awake, drowsy, and asleep due to at least 11 left
hemispheric electrographic seizures. Recurrent seizures emanating from the left hemisphere
suggest a structural lesion in this region.  In the setting of altered mental status, recurrent seizures
suggest a diagnosis of status epilepticus.  These findings were communicated to the primary team.
stage II sleep is seen .randomly move his arms and legs.


