History:	50 year old woman admitted for a right frontal contusion after falling forward from a gtc seizure for 45 seconds. Pmhx: Localization-related Epilepsy, depression, anxiety.
Morphologic features suggestive of chiari malformation, agenesis of the corpus callosum and subependymal heterotopia.
Medications: TEGRETOL,  KEPPRA
Sedation:  NONE
EEG Type: Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1!T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, which is best seen over the right hemisphere. Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.
During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Continuous polymorphic theta activity is present in the left mid and posterior temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. There is associated loss of faster frequencies over the left temporal region. Rare focal spikes are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at T3.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed. Verbal stimuli did not activate the record. HR was 72.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, rare, left temporal, mid
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, left temporal, Mid and posterior temporal with loss j
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of Rare spike in the left mid temporal region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region, and given the clinical history of partial seizures, are consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy. There  is also nearly continuous focal slowing in the left mid and posterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.



