
History:	49 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O  BRAIN MASS, NEW ONSET SZ, LT
SIDE FLACCID. PMHX SIG FOR HIV, HEP C
Medications:	Versed, Keppra, Dilantin and Ativan given after the start of the record.
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 30 hours from 04/04/2015 to 04/06/2015. Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Frontally predominant intermixed  5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.  Intermittent
periods  diffuse attenuation seen for 1-3 seconds.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Electrographic seizures are recorded beginning with rhythmic
delta/theta activity in the posterior temporal region and evolving into 14 Hz activity that remains
over the temporal lobe with some anterior spread. The seizures last about 2 to 3 minutes.  There
was no clinical correlate associated to this EEG activity documented on video. The seizures stop 45
minutes into the record after ativan was given. The rest of the record reveals  Periodic lateralized
epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) are present in the T6 region at a rate of0.3 to 0.7Hz. However this
have a polyspike morphology and at time occur with 2-3 discharges in one second.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  Hr was 96
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Status epilepticus, right temporal, posterior
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, right temporal, posterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  frequent focal electrographic seizure arising from the right
posterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region,
and are consistent with focal subclinical status epilepticus. This resolves after ativan is
administered. The PLEDs are consistent with an acute irritable cortical focus in that region. In
addition there is  diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.






