History:	52 year old man with a history of a liver transplant in 2011 now presents with
episodes characterized by flushing lights and confusion.  A spot EEG on 1/23/2015
showed focal status epilepticus.
Medications:	Vimpat
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~20 hours from 1/24/2015 till 1/25/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Awake background is characterized by low amplitude 10 Hz alpha activity with preserved AP
gradient.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  During sleep, symmetrical vertex waves and sleep
spindles are captured.  At least one epoch of REM sleep is present.
No clear seizures are captured.  However, there is progressive worsening electrode artifact that
affects especially left hemispheric leads, and O1 especially.  So subtle seizures could have been missed.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Beta, excessive
Artifact, electrode, progressive and excessive by the end of the recording epoch
Interpretation:
This is a NORMAL 20 -hour continuous video EEG. No clear seizures are captured.  However, there
is progressive worsening electrode artifact that affects especially left hemispheric leads, and left
occipital lead especially.  So subtle seizures could have been missed.  Excessive beta activity
could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  These
findings were conveyed to the primary team.





