TIME OF RECORDING:  September 13, 2012 until September 14, 2012 from about 8:00 a.m. in the morning until about 8:00 a.m. the next morning.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 22-year-old woman with history of new onset generalized convulsions.
MEDICATIONS:  Current antiepileptic medications none.
INTRODUCTION:  This is a continuous 24-hour video EEG performed according to the standard 2010 EEG system with additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Spike detection and seizure detection system were activated.  There were also patient event button provided, as well as nursing notes and medical staff notes were reviewed as well.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well formed and modulated low to moderate amplitude 10 to 10.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eye opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.
During sleep normal sleep architecture, including sleep spindles, vertex waves, K-complexes, slow wave sleep, and REM sleep are captured.
Two typical events were captured during this recording.  They occurred at approximately 2:22:32 p.m. and approximately 2:26 p.m. on September 13, 2012.  Clinically events start with an acute onset of diffuse body shaking, arms flailing, legs kicking and flailing, as well as head shaking in all different directions with eyes closed.  This activity lasts about 50 to 60 seconds and stops suddenly with the patient listless and poorly responsive with eyes open.
The patient has another similar episode several minutes later.  This episode lasts about 30 seconds with similar post event symptoms.  The EEG background demonstrates normal awake EEG prior to the event, between the event, and following both of the events with no focal slowing and no abnormal ictal correlates.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
FINDINGS:
Normal awake and sleep 24-hour video EEG.
Two events of diffuse body shaking, arms and legs flailing and kicking, captured at approximately 9:22 and 9:26 p.m. on September 13, 2012.  None of these events correlated with an abnormal ictal activity prior, during, or following the events.
IMPRESSION:  This is a normal 24-hour continuous video EEG.  Two typical events of sudden diffuse arm and leg, as well as body and head, shaking, flailing, and kicking captured, lasting approximately 50 seconds and 30 seconds respectively and occurring within about 4 minutes of each other.  None of these events were associated with an abnormal ictal correlate.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team at the time of the review of the recording.



