History:	62 year old man with a history of right middle cranial fossa meningioma resection,
now presents with right sided numbness
Medications:	Dilantin, Temazepam
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and sleep
spindles and K complexes appear.  Sleep architecture is more pronounced over the right.
Continuous polymorphic sharply contoured delta activity is present in the right midtemporal/
centroparietal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Continuous underriding fast
activity is seen in the right midtemporal/ centroparietal region (breach rhythm).  Several sharply
contoured waveforms are captured over the right centroparietal region during drowsiness/ sleep.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right, midtemporal/ centroparietal
Breach artifact, right, midtemporal/ centroparietal
Asymmetry, sleep architecture, more pronounced over the right
Sharp transients, few, right centroparietal region
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep portable EEG due to continuous moderate focal slowing
in the right midtemporal/ centroparietal region. Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal
structural lesion and is consistent with patient's history of craniotomy in that region.  Breach artifact
indicates skull defect.  Several sharply contoured waveform in the right centroparietal are of unclear
clinical significance and are not clearly epileptiform.  These waveforms occur in the setting of
focal slowing and breach rhythm -  breach rhythm makes background appear sharply contoured.



