History:	50 year old woman with repeated episodes of unresponsiveness.
Medications:	no AEDs; Clozaril
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~17 hours from 11/6/2014 till 11/7/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.   The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess polymorphic theta activity is present.  Degree of theta
activity decreases as the recording progresses.  During brief drowsiness, the background slows to
central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm
No clear focal slowing is present.
Patient moves nearly continuously throughout the recording epoch.  Many of the electrodes are
lost starting at ~12 AM.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild, improves by the end of the recording
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 17 hours continuous video EEG due to mild diffuse slowing that improves as
the recording progresses. This finding is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Very little drowsiness and sleep are captured during the recording.
Patient also moves nearly continuously throughout the recording epoch - this limits EEG
interpretation.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





