CLINICAL HISTORY: 35 year old man with hypertension, pericarditis, alcohol abuse, HIV, lupus who presents with seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Ativan, Protonix, Lovenox.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with an additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness only.  Activating procedures are not performed except minor photic stimulation was performed for a couple of seconds.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  The patient is recorded mainly during wakefulness.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  None.
EPISODES:  During the recording, the patient had 2 episodes where at the beginning he would start stretching his arm and becoming tense then his body started trembling slowly in his hands and his feet and developing whole body trembling lasting for about 1 minute 15 seconds, not being able to follow commands during the episode and not recalling the code word.  Afterward, he woke up and asked what happened and he was crying.  During this first episode, there was no clear EEG abnormality or changes and after the event there was a clear posterior dominant rhythm that could be changed.  During the event, there were just multiple artifacts.  A second event occurred minutes later while photic stimulation was started.  He started trembling slowly and the whole body started shaking irregularly and moving toward the left side.  This episode lasted about 2 minutes and again afterward the patient remained unresponsive for some time.  During the entire episode, the EEG did not reveal any epileptiform activity or any EEG correlate.  There was a lot of muscle artifact and after the event there was a clear normal posterior dominant rhythm seen during the recording.  Two episodes of diffuse body shaking with no unresponsiveness and no EEG correlate.
IMPRESSION:  Normal awake EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:   The 2 episodes with diffuse body shaking had no EEG correlate which is consistent with the diagnosis of a nonepileptic event.  No seizures or epileptiform activity were seen during the recording.



