History:	76 year old woman with left parietal ICH and persistent confusion.  A spot EEG
revealed recurrent seizures.
Medications:	Keppra, Dilantin, Ativan
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, asleep, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 3/10/2015 till 3/11/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  During maximal stimulation the background consists of a
mixture of polymorphic low amplitude theta, delta and underriding beta activity.  As the recording
progresses, periods of wakefulness/ arousals become less frequent.
Left posterior quadrant seizures are captured.  They last ~5-15 seconds and occur several times per
hour. Their frequency varies throughout the recording from occasional to intermittent.  There is no
clinical correlate documented on the video.  Additionally,  there are frequent brief 1-5 second left
posterior quadrant runs that resemble the activity that is seen in the above seizures but they do not
have clear evolution (BIRDs - brief ictal or rhythmic discharges).
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Beta, excessive
Seizure, left posterior quadrant
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24-hour continuous video EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing and left
posterior quadrant seizures and brief runs of epileptiform discharges (BIRDs). Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this
patient at least partially related to the medication effect.  There is continuous epileptogenic focus
emanating from the left posterior quadrant.  When compared to the prior recording epoch, this EEG
demonstrates decrease in seizure frequency and duration.  These findings were conveyed to the
primary team





