CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 55-year-old male with posttraumatic epilepsy and left ocular injury.  The patient admitted after multiple complex partial seizures with profound postictal confusion.  EEG recorded in the emergency room when the patient was awake and conversant.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside in the ER using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient has previous cranial scars.  This was a technically satisfactory record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the recording begins, the patient is awake with a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm identified bilaterally, 9.5 Hz, somewhat better represented on the left compared to the right.  Intermittent arrhythmic delta activity was noted in the right hemisphere maximum right frontotemporal region.  Generous beta was noted.  Out of this background, 2 electrographic seizures were noted characterized by 21-24 seconds of rhythmic activity, which begins with an increase in fast activity then rhythmic higher amplitude theta activity with a sharp waves mixed in.  The seizures are maximum in the anterior temporal region, but with generous brought into the frontal temporal and central temporal regions.  There are 1 or 2 bursts of focal slowing or sharp waves followed at 2 electrographic discharges.  The technologist at the bedside identifying no impairment of the patient during the seizures.
By the end of the EEG, the EEG demonstrates generous background beta and occasional focal slowing primarily in the right temporal region.
Heart rate:  84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is abnormal due to:
Two electrographic seizures of 21-24 seconds in duration, maximum in the right mid to central temporal region.
Intermittent right temporal focal slowing.
Right mid to anterior temporal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The epileptiform activity is congruent with the patient's neuroimaging.  No clinical changes were noted during these 2 electrographic seizures.





