CLINICAL HISTORY:  41 year old right handed man with a history of CHF, hypertension, alcohol abuse, dilated cardiomyopathy, and prior stroke, who presents to the emergency department after a seizure, becoming hypoxic and having to be intubated in the setting of hypertension. Prior to admission, he had a brief episode of slurred speech with difficulty with word finding, was given Ativan, Versed, vecuronium, Lasix, nitro, Enalapril, and Etomidate.

MEDICATIONS:  Zosyn, Dilantin, Phenytoin, Vancomycin.

REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizure.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while stuporous and unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm.  There is some central faster frequencies in the alpha to beta range which are seen predominantly over the left central and frontal regions and less over the right hemisphere.  In between this diffusely slow background and central alpha and theta, there are short bursts of diffuse attenuation lasting for 3 to 4 seconds.  In addition, there is a lack of faster frequencies over the right mid and posterior temporal regions.  No activating procedures were performed.  No sleep architecture is seen.  During the recording, the patient is stimulated and there appears to be no change or reactivity on the EEG.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Generalized slow waves at 2 to 4 Hz, seen continuously throughout the recording intermixed with periods of diffuse attenuation for seconds and with a central predominance of faster frequencies, which is best seen over the left hemisphere.  There is also attenuation of faster frequencies over the right posterior temporal and midtemporal regions.  Lastly, at some points there is some sharply contoured central wave forms at C3 and some C3 focal slowing seen intermittently.

SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Generalized slow waves, bursts of attenuation, right mid-to-posterior temporal loss of faster frequencies.
2. Left central slowing and sharply contoured theta.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This abnormal EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology and may be due, at least in part, to medication effect.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left central region, which is also nonspecific in regard to etiology.  Lastly, the lack of faster frequency seen on the right mid-to-posterior temporal is consistent with a structural or cortical lesion, which goes along with the known stroke in that region.  No seizures were seen.


