History:	24 YR FEMALE WITH CC OF STATUS.  PMHX: MENINGITIS ENCEPHALITIS AT
AGE 3, VNS 2013 (JEFFERSON), IBS,.
Medications:	Propofol, Ativan, Dilantin, Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from 03/10/2014 to 03/11/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	4
Description of pushbutton events
See seizure description. She had 4 push buttons but had 7 clinical seizures.
Description:
Infrequently a posterior dominant rhythm reaches 9 Hz  Overall the background activity was
characterized by a disorganized diffuse delta and theta activity with absence of the expected
anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Almost continuous focal slowing is present over the right centro-temporal region and bifrontal
regions.  High amplitude epileptiform discharges are seen in the central region at C3/CZ and
CZ/C4 at times with a more frontal component.  These appear in rhythmic bursts for seconds.
Frequent bilateral frontal discharges are seen at F7 and F8 independently.  7 Clinical Seizures
were captured. The EEG reveals a sudden diffuse attenuation followed by a diffuse beta discharge
that slow down in frequency and suddenly stops. The seizures last 15-25 seconds.  Clinically the
eyes open and roll backwards. The mouth opens and exhibits clonic twitching. The arms may also
tremble while they slowly rise. The behavior suddenly stops at the end of the seizure.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 114
Summary of Findings:
Seizure
Spikes and sharp waves
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of 7 clinical seizures with a diffuse and unclear onset. There
are also frequent bifrontal independent as well as central spike and sharp waves, which are
supportive of a multifocal epilepsy.  In addition, diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


