AGE: 28 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 12/17/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient
EEG TYPE: 40-60 min, awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1825
HISTORY:
28 y.o. female with a history of childhood epilepsy referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.	The patient reported a technologist and she has not been taking her medication regularly and had a seizure 2 weeks ago
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
folic acid (FOLVITE) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth daily. LEVONORGESTREL (MIRENA IU), by Intrauterine route. levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily.
No current facility-administered medications for this visit.
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a	technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG HV and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient. Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.	No focal slowing is present. EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
Frontally predominant, 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity is identified in wakefulness, drowsiness and stage II sleep.	It is not particularly accentuated by hyperventilation or by photic stimulation.	Bursts are typically less than 3 seconds in duration.	No impairment in response time was noted with a 2 second burst
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Mild increase in amplitude and slowing Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21
flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding. Isolated spike and wave activity was seen, as noted in the remainder of the EEG
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 90 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is abnormal 40 minute routine EEG.
#1 frontally predominant 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings are similar to the previous study.	The EEG suggests a generalized or genetic cause for epilepsy.	No clinical events were recorded.
This EEG does support the diagnosis of epilepsy.



