History:	74 year old man with change in mental status.
Medications:	Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with lower
amplitudes over the right hemisphere, especially over the right lateral leads.  The background over
the left has no PDR or AP gradient, voltage attenuation over the occipital region, mixture of
polymorphic theta and delta activity with discrete blunted broadly based midtemporal-central sharp
waves.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs  over T3 and C3 electrode.  Sharp waves are
accompanied by low amplitude fast activity.  The background over the right consists of weak up to 8
Hz PDR with weak AP gradient, excess polymorphic theta and delta activity and attenuation of
voltages over the right lateral leads.  No normal sleep architecture is present, however, periods of
A single electrographic seizure is captured over the left temporocentral region.  It starts at ~
3:20:22 PM and lasts ~ 48 seconds.  There is no clinical correlate.  Electrographically seizure starts
with abrupt onset of moderate amplitude alpha-beta frequency activity over the parasagittal leads
as well as over T5 electrode.  It rapidly evolves into left hemispheric rhythmic delta activity with
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There is reactivity to visual, auditory,
tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, moderate, right, over the lateral leads
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
Seizure, one, left, temporocentral region
Sharp waves, intermittent, left, midtemporal-central
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 24 minute due to (1) moderate diffuse slowing; (2) focal moderate left
hemispheric slowing; (3) focal background attenuation over right lateral leads: (4) intermittent left
temporocentral epileptiform discharges and (5) a single ~48 seconds focal left hemispheric seizure
with midtemporal central onset.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal
structural lesion in this region. There is epileptogenic focus over the left midtemporal central region.
Focal background attenuation over the right lateral leads could indicate a fluid collection
between a scalp and brain (such as SDH, empyema) - clinical correlation suggested.  When
compared to the EEG from 12/11/2014, there has been remarkable change in  the background.
These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.  Patient will be placed on continuous quiescence are captured. EEG monitoring.underriding fast  activity.






