REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 26-year-old woman with seizures for 2 years, now started having them again in 2013.  She is currently 2-1/2 months pregnant.
MEDICATIONS:  Xanax, metoprolol, oxycodone, and a seizure medication which the patient does not know.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  There is a continuous T3 electrode artifact for a long period of the study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz, which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontal central beta.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and sleep, stage I.  Activating procedures including hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  Hyperventilation produced accentuation of the focal slowing, which I will discuss in the abnormal discharges.  In addition, there were some intermittent bursts of high amplitude theta slowing seen diffusely, at times appeared to have some sharply contoured component in the posterior and frontal regions, but none clearly epileptic.  This appeared to improve with sleep and may represent bursts of drowsiness.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal slow waves seen independently at T3 and independently at T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz, amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  Please note that some of these discharges appeared to have a sharp contour to them.
Heart rate 78.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left and right mid temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the bilateral mid temporal regions, both of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures were seen.  Please note that some of the discharges noted in the description above appear to be drowsy bursts, however, some of them have a suspicious contour, and a more prolonged recording capturing the deeper stages of sleep may be helpful in clarifying the etiology if this is clinically indicated.



