History:	92 year old male with right lacunar infarct and resolving status epilepticus
Medications:	phenytoin, levetiracetam
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
There is intermittent right posterior temporal delta activity superimposed on periodic epileptiform
discharges (PEDs).  There are nearly continuous right posterior temporo-parietal PEDs with variable
frequency between 1 and 2Hz. The PEDs appear as long continuous runs lasting 20-30 seconds, or
in short bursts lasting 5-10 seconds, with a frequency of 1.5 Hz.  Of note, no clinical episodes of left
arm twitching were noted during the recording epoch.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was minimal reactivity to
auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), intermittent, right posterior quadrant, bursts
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right posterior quadrant
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), continuous, right posterior quadrant
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video-EEG because of focal right posterior quadrant slowing,
continuous PEDs, and intermittent bursts of PEDs. Clinical seizures were not appreciated.  These
findings are suggestive of resolving status epilepticus.  These findings were conveyed to the
neurology consult team.






