CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 31-year-old male with childhood epilepsy, seizure free until recent years.  Patient states that he is currently seizure-free for the past year.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal, Keppra, retrovirals.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This is an awake and drowsy record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  A subtle asymmetry is noted between the 2 hemispheres with a bit of 7 Hz theta noted in the right hemisphere relative to the left and very subtle disruption of the alpha rhythm on the right.  As the patient becomes drowsy, the record becomes increasingly synchronous and symmetric.  Other features of drowsiness include rhythmic background theta and attenuation of the alpha rhythm.  Brief spindles were noted with POSTS in stage 2 sleep.  Photic stimulation was performed as the patient is drifting in to stage 2 sleep, and did not significantly activate the record.  Hyperventilation produced a vigorous hyperventilation response with an increase in rhythmic theta as well as an increase in beta.  There is some subtle, asymmetric bursts noted in hyperventilation with higher amplitude rhythmic theta noted on the left.  There is one, suspicious underlying sharp waves noted at the close of hyperventilation in the right centrotemporal region.
Heart rate 56 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is a subtly abnormal EEG due to:
A very subtle asymmetry, identified using a frequency analysis with an increase in 7 Hz activity noted intermittently in the right hemisphere with disruption of the alpha rhythm.
An asynchronous hyperventilation response with higher amplitude rhythmic theta.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Only a single sharp wave was seen there for this must not be considered definitively epileptogenic.  This is the 7th EEG for this individual.  Previous EEGs have identified right mid temporal sharp waves, which were not identified at this time.  This patient's 2004-2008 EEGs were not available for comparison.  No prominent epileptiform or focal features were noted, and no new findings were noted in this record.



