REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 50-year-old woman with a history of resection of a left frontal meningioma in 2009, mastectomy for breast malignancy, hypertension, depression, RSD, hyperlipidemia, pseudoseizures, right facial paucity, right hemibody shaking, unresponsiveness, and head shaking episodes.
MEDICATIONS:  Topamax, Ativan, Prilosec, Zocor, Effexor, Neurontin, baclofen, and metoprolol.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with addition of anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness only.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded in wakefulness.  Activating procedures produced no abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal swelling seen intermittently at C3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-40 microvolts.
EPISODES:  During this recording the patient had an episode where she suddenly became unresponsive and her face on the right appeared to look slightly drooped.  She would not follow commands but would response to painful stimuli and at 1 point would answer questions.  Mainly she remains with her eyes closed and her right face appeared slightly drooped.  However, if they stimulated her, her eyes would open and she remained with a right facial droop except when talking.  This episode lasted about 4 minutes after which the patient started responding and then she started shaking her head again in a back-and-forth high-frequency motion, again appeared to be unresponsive, lasted for 30 seconds, stopped, and started again, and she was responsive in between.  After the episode she was clinically responsive and knew the code word.
Heart rate:  84.
IMPRESSION:  Normal awake EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a normal awake EEG.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.  The episode described above had no clear EEG correlate.  As such she may represent simple partial seizure which in 25% of the cases does not have EEG signature or alternatively may represent a non-epileptic event.



