History:	45 year old woman with a history of seizures that occur about once per month.

Patient remains tense throughout the recording, despite technologist's attempts to
relax her.
Medications:	OXCARBAZEPINE, BENZTROPINE, DOXEPIN, PAROXETINE, PERPHENAZINE,
QUETIAPINE
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
At best, the background consists of moderate amplitude 10-10.5 Hz alpha posteriorly with expected
AP gradient.  For the majority of the recording, additional polymorphic diffuse theta activity is
present.  Patient remains awake throughout the recording.
Despite EMG artifact over the left lateral leads, intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present
over the left anterior temporal region.  No clear epileptiform discharges are captured.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at
multiple flash rates.  Significant EMG artifact is present over the left lateral leads for more than half
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, moderate, left temporal, anterior
Disorganization, mild
Artifact, EMG, frequent, moderate, left, lateral leads
No stage 2 sleep
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake-only 29-minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing and
disorganization and (2) intermittent moderate left anterior temporal focal slowing. Diffuse slowing
and disorganization are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
Intermittent focal slowing is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-
specific, but possibly structural in origin.  No clear epileptiform discharges are present but there is
significant EMG artifact over the left lateral leads for more than half of the recording.






