CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 47-year-old woman with increased frequency of seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Tegretol and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the Long-Term EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient is allowed to freely move about the room performing routine activities as well as sleeping.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a lot of muscle movement artifact picked up in the background.  When the artifact subsides, an 8 Hz posterior dominant alpha rhythm is seen, which is well attenuated with eyes opened.  Random sleep occurred in the evening, but was frequently disrupted by arousals.  Sleep is evidenced by vertex waves, spindles, and K complexes.
EVENTS: Two push button events were recorded at midnight at 01:19 to 01:21 AM.  No seizure behaviors were recognized on the video camera.  No EEG correlates were seen and no change in the background was noted.
Long-Term Monitoring, April 28-29, 2004
MEDICATIONS: Tegretol and Keppra
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the Long-Term EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. Hyperventilation is performed.  The patient is allowed to freely move about the room performing routine activities as well as sleeping.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG is symmetric and continuous with a lot of muscle movement artifact. When the artifact subsides, an 8 Hz posterior dominant alpha rhythm is seen, which is well attenuated with eyes opened.  There is a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.  Hyperventilation was performed for four minutes with good effort.  The patient did not complain of being uncomfortable during hyperventilation.  No seizure behavior was seen and no EEG correlates were noted. Sleep is evidenced by vertex waves, spindles, and K complexes. In light sleeping, rare, sharp activity is seen in the left temporal area.
EVENTS:  Three events were recorded during this tracing.  One occurred at 19:11 PM, 21:32 – 21:33, and 22:27.  In all the push button events, no seizure behavior was observed on the video camera and no epileptiform discharges were seen in the background.  No background changes were noted.
HR:  72 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Mild background slowing.
Rare left temporal sharp activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:   ** NOT DICTATED **




