REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 54-year-old man with a history of seizures due to right temporal metastatic tumor presented with generalized seizures.  EEG to rule out subclinical status.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed was stopped and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed for 23.5 hours using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during unresponsiveness.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software in addition to nurses' notes, the patient's alarms, and primary team reports were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some intermittent electrode artifact and in the morning hours there was a disconnection of the EEG for 1/2 hour.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  The patient reveals no normal sleep architecture.  Overall, the background is very suppressed and there is a paucity or lack of faster frequencies seen throughout.  Overall, there is low amplitude and what appears to be bursts of diffuse attenuation.  However, at times when the patient is stimulated there appears to be some muscle reactivity.  This background is intermixed with PLEDs which I will describe in abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal sharp waves seen rhythmically at 1 Hz over the right hemisphere maximal at T6/O2 at a frequency of 1 Hz continuously throughout the recording.  These are consistent with periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs).
SEIZURES:  None.
HEART RATE:  86.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to right posterior temporal occipital periodic lateralizing epileptiform discharges in addition to diffuse background slowing attenuation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral structural dysfunction and irritability over the right posterior temporal and occipital region, which is consistent with the known tumor.  In addition, there is evidence of moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology but may be due at least in part to medication affect.  No seizures were seen over this last 23.5 hours.  These findings were reported to the primary team.



