MEDICINES:
Rufinamide, Keppra, Lamictal, Protonix, Lovenox, Vimpat.
INTRODUCTION:
Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with
one-channel EKG.
During this recording, the patient has seizures at 1616, 1834, 01 :24:11, and 05:14:52.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:
The background EEG is abnormal with excess beta and theta. It is difficult to find a well-defined alpha rhythm.
Prominent rhythmic theta is noted in the right temporal or occipital region and there are sharp waves noted.
Sleep is characterized by an increase in beta with spindles and arrhythmic delta activity. Sharp waves on this EEG can
be posterior, right occipital, anterior temporal or even on one or two occasions right frontal. Epileptiform activity is
accentuated in sleep and some of it has a bifrontal or more generalized appearance. There are clear stage 2 sleep
morphologies. Stage 2 sleep also is associated with some generalized, bifrontal spike and slow wave or polyspike
complexes.
Seizure number one 16:16:26. The patient is with his mother. He is asleep. In sleep, there is repetitive spiking noted
from the right mid to posterior temporal region.
The patient starts to stir from sleep at 16:14:50 and he looks at his mother, which produces an increase in muscle in the
background. He looks about for several seconds and he speaks to his mother, although it is difficult to tell what he said.
He gestures with his left hand, puts the left hand to the mouth and looks about. Behaviorally, this seems to be an aura
because he does not seem to be having any clinical symptoms and then his mother goes to get the urinal. No clinical
manifestations are noted aside from tremulousness and an urge to go to the bathroom. However, as the patient gets up
to go to the bathroom, he starts to have jerking at 16:16:30 with jerking, vocalizations and tremulousness. He holds the
left hand a bit more still and jerks the right hand He also has characteristic ictal-type respirations. The primary features
of this seizure include restlessness.
By 17:36, he is able to answer questions.
Behaviorally, the seizure is primarily characterized by abnormal respirations and agitation.
Seizure time 18:34:54. The patient has been resting in bed. He is dozing. Again, he sits up abruptly, moves about,
breathes rapidly and is briefly agitated.
This seizure ends at 18:35:36 and he has automatisms and gestures, is confused and tries to take off the electrodes at
18:35:47.
By EEG, this is a somewhat challenging EEG to localize because of the high amplitude activity and the muscle artifact.
The epileptiform activity prior to this seizure is right posterior temporal and, during the seizure, very difficult to localize in
part because of the muscle artifact. There is a clear postictal change.
Seizure time 23:44 is just a push button event.
Seizure time 01:23:40. The patient has been asleep with a focal slowing in sharp waves seen in the right occipital and
posterior region. Muscle artifact is seen at 01 :23:49. He sits up, has the characteristic respirations, is a bit agitated and
tremulous. He starts to take off the blood pressure cuff and the covers. He has midline, fearful movements as were seen
in the previous seizure. The technologist, nurse or the patient pushes the button at 1 :24:13, it is a little hard to tell and
the nurse is at the bedside with him. Somebody asked him are you okay or asked the nurse if she is okay at 01:24:27.
The nurse, at 01 :24:35, touched the patient and asked the patient is he okay. The seizure seemed to be ending at
01 :24:36. The patient rests comfortably.
Seizure time 05:14:28. The patient has been sleeping. Wakes from sleep with muscle artifact, sits up. Again, he seems
to be upset and agitated. The EEG during the seizure is difficult to interpret. He seems to be postictal and confused by
05:16:30 and then consolable.
Heart rate N/ A.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:
Additional EEG recording will follow in subsequent days and the final impression and clinical correlation will follow.



