CLINICAL HISTORY:  20 year old with Noonan's syndrome, AICD, mental retardation, macrocephaly, admitted with low medication levels and recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Versed, Phenobarbital, Vimpat, Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. The patient has just had a prolonged generalized seizure and is quite somnolent.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The EEG demonstrates a slow background with generous beta and arrhythmic delta.  High amplitude spike and wave and polyspike and wave activity can be identified independently from the right or left hemisphere.  On the right it tends to be maximum in the central temporal region with generous spread to the posterior regions.  Vertex waves and spindles are noted as the tracing continues and the patient's postictal period begins to resolve.  Stimulation of the patient produces an arousal.
HR:   120 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This postictal record is remarkable for:
Prominent beta activity.
Prominent background slowing.
High amplitude epileptiform activity with spike and wave and polyspike and wave activity, which is most prominent on the right.
LONG TERM MONITORING - # 12-30 – 03/11/2012
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the overnight recording, the patient is asleep.  There are intermittent sharp waves noted from the right or left.  There is a significant amount of EKG artifact.
At 8:55, while the patient is sleeping on his back with his pillow over him, he seems to have had an electrographic seizure without clinical correlate.  This begins with a burst of fast activity from the right hemisphere of 9.5 Hz, lasting about 5 seconds before we see irregular sharp waves which are isoelectric at T2 and T4 but with a T4 phase reversal.  This demonstrates frequent evolution and the event seems to be over in about 30 seconds.  A similar 30-second discharge is noted at 9:16 in the morning, again without clinical correlate.  The patient is tested at 9:20.  He is arousable but drifting off to sleep.  The awake EEG for him in this section of the record is remarkable for a slow background with restlessness.



