REASON FOR STUDY:  Status post code.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 50-year-old woman, status post partial thyroidectomy, was in status post code, rule out ECS per request, propofol was given before EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Propofol, Ativan, vancomycin, Coumadin, Dilantin, metoprolol, Protonix, insulin, and albuterol.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while fully responsive or obtunded.  No activating procedures were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Continuous P4 artifact throughout the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontal central beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.  Overall the background is consistent with adult slow wave pattern at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-40 mV.  At times there is some intermixed frontal beta seen intermittently throughout the recording.
The patient was stimulated with verbal, as well as tactile stimuli and painful stimuli.  With painful stimuli there appears to be a diffuse muscle discharge seen in all the electrodes.  However, there is no increase in the frequencies overall in the EEG.
Seizures:  None.
Heart rate:  150.
Abnormal discharges:
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-30 mV with some muscle reactivity, but no major frequency reactivity and some variability in the EEG.
During the beginning of the recording the patient appears to have some head jerking movements towards the right and towards the left intermittently, however, the EEG did not reveal any clear electrographic correlate to these movements.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to marked generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  However, the intermittent frontal beta suggested it may be due at least in part to medication effect.  The jerking movements appear in the video to be more consistent with myoclonus, however, there was no electrographic correlate to them. No clear seizures or epileptiform activity was seen.



