CLINICAL HISTORY: A 27-year-old with multiple seizures at home and in the ER. Admitted for recurrent seizures,

MEDICATIONS: Keppra.

INTRODUCTION: A long-term EEG was performed for 12 hours from 11/16/2013 to 11/17/2013 using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrodes. The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep. Activating procedures were not performed.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES: During the last hours of the recording, the patient pulled multiple electrodes.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9Hz which is reactive to eye opening. There is an excessive amount of beta throughout the recording in wakefulness. The patient is recorded in wakefulness. Stage 1 and stage 2 deeper stages of sleep. Activating procedures were not performed.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES: None.

EVENTS: During the recording, around 10:03 p.m., the patient appears to suddenly wake up from sleep and start thrashing around unresponsive in the bed for about a minute. After that, stops and goes back to sleep. The EEG during this entire episode reveals a normal background awake and wakefulness. At 10:55 p.m .. !he patient again wakes up from sleep and starts moving around and thrashing around, stretching her arms and being unresponsive with irregular arm shaking. Again, the video does not reveal clear audio, but she appears unresponsive. These episodes last again for a minute and afterwards the patient goes to sleep. Please note that the patient does start and stop the behavior a couple of times: again, the video is not very clear. During this whole episode, the nurses pressed the button and reported a seizure; however, the EEG appears to show a normal awake background.

IMPRESSION: Normal awake and asleep EEG. Three episodes of unresponsiveness and irregular shaking with no EEG correlate.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG Is a normal awake and asleep EEG. No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen. The 3 events described above with irregular shaking and unresponsiveness have no E are clinically suggestive of psychogenic nonepileptic events.

