CLINICAL HISTORY: 22-year-old woman who was shoved 10 the floor on the 23rd, no loss of consciousness, but then had 2 episodes that were described as seizures. Previous, "minor" head injury without loss or consciousness.
MEDICATIONS: Depacon, Zofran, tramadol, others.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed In lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode
placement with 1 channel EKG. Impedances were acceptable aside from the T1-T2 electrodes.
Electrode placement was perhaps suboptimal due to some or the features of the vertex waves.
DESCRIPTION OF THE As the tracing begins, the patient is asleep. Features of stage 1 and
stage 2 sleep are noted with vertex activity and spindles. Intermittent bursts of delta were noted. There
is prominent beta. There is a slight asymmetry noted with a bit of slowing noted on the left with a bit more
delta on the left relative to the right Eye movement and EKG artifacts as well were noted 10 the
background.

Hyperventilation was performed early in the record. Hyperventilation clearly accentuates focal slowing
from the left hemisphere, and in hyperventilation, discrete left temporal sharp waves emerge. As the
hyperventilation concludes, the patient drifts off back to sleep with generous beta and again focal slowing
noted from the left. In more prolonged stage II sleep, some of the vertex waves and spindles are slightly
asymmetric. Photic stimulation was performed while the patient was drifting off to sleep. II does not
significantly activate the record, but the focal sharp waves and focal slowing persist In sleep, there are
some lower voltage, discreet bilateral spikes noted with a bit of a field to the left.
At the close of the record, the patient is transitioning back into stage II sleep, but limited wakefulness was
identified with a symmetric brief posterior dominant rhythm.
Heart rate 60 bpm.
IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal EEG due to:
1. Focal stowing from the left temporal region.
2. Discrete fell temporal spikes.
3. A number of discrete, bifrontal spikes.
4. Hypersomnolence.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Th1s EEG supports a structural or functional process on the left with focal
epileptiform features These findings may be correlated with Imaging
This patients medications should also include Remeron and Abilify.



