History:	61 YO FEMALE PRESENTS W/ SOB. SHE WAS WORKING TO BREATH WHEN
EMS ARRIVED. SHORTLY THEIR AFTER PT LOST PULSE PEA CODE STARTED.
EMS REPORTED 4 - 5 MINS, HUSBAND REPORTED 10 - 15MIN.
Medications:	NITRO, BREVIBLOC, INSULIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 01/06/2014 to 01/07/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
See description below.
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
attenuation with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal
sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Frequent periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges in the right
frontal region with a large field and associated myogenic artifact over the left hemisphere. These
no longer appear to become rhythmic or evolve.  With paralytics the sharp waves appear to mainly
involve only the right hemisphere mainly in the frontal region with a large field and with no clear
spread to the other hemisphere or evolution.  These occur continuously at about 1-2 Hz throughout
the entire record.  Video reveals left facial twitching.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 96.  Please note that this record is limited by the continuous
muscle artifact seen throughout the study. This improved with paralytics.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, continuous generalized
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, right frontal, with associated
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL limited EEG because of right frontal PLED's with associated contralateral
muscle artifact. These discharges are consistent with focal or localized seizures and may represent
an underlying irritable cortex. In addition the diffuse background attenuation is an indicator of severe cortical dysfunction, which supports a poor prognosis.

