SEIZURE EVENT: Time 10:25:09. The patient reports feeling dizzy at 10:25:09.  At this time, she shows relatively normal awake background despite some muscle and motion artifact.  The tech enters at this time.  With the onset of the seizure, there is muscle, and the first clear ictal change for this seizure is difficult to determine.  Clinically, the seizure begins at 10:25:29, exactly when the tech enters the room.  The patient’s head turns to the left and there is posturing of the right hand.  The EEG from the left hemisphere is partly obscured and the EEG from the right hemisphere and overall EEG clearly has a change by 10:25:31.  This includes the appearance of faster frequency activity, rhythmic, a mixture of alpha and theta frequency from the right hemisphere with a paroxysmal frequency evolution lowering to 3 Hz by 10:25:33.  There is clearly a frequency evolution, which can be identified in the midline electrodes and the right hemisphere.  With the use of a filter, there is clear evolution with a delta frequency activity picked up at the midline and on the right, but the overall localization of the seizure is difficult.  The activity seems to be most intent and evolving and by 10:26, there is rhythmic 7 to 8 Hz activity from the right hemisphere with two phase reversals on the right with arrhythmic delta on the left.  Overall, the right hemisphere clearly demonstrates a localized pattern, but the activity from the left hemisphere is obscured and there seems, at least during some portions of the seizure, to be underlying arrhythmic delta on the left, but overall localization is extremely challenging.  __________the scalp might suggest localization to the right.
The end of the seizure is somewhat difficult to determine, but the seizure appears to be over by 10:27 and in fact it may be easier to determine when the seizure is over clinically than by the EEG.  The behavioral correlates for this picture include initially tonic and then tonic-clonic activity of the right hand, but some automatisms of the left.  By 10:25:48, the patient still has some automatisms on the left with more clear tonic-clonic activity on the right.  Through the course of the seizure, the eye deviation goes from left to right, her left hand is raised almost above her head, and her right hand is clenched.  As the seizure continues, her head and eye deviation is more clearly towards the right.  Even with the use of the filters, by 10:26:22, there is a great deal of muscle.  The seizure seems to be over behaviorally at 10:26:30 and the patient’s arms are coming down and she seems to be postictal.  Again, behavior is better than EEG in terms of determining seizure offset.  The patient’s heart rate increases to 100 bpm, again partially obscured during the EEG.  Postictal slowing is identified in the time recording that follows this event.
No additional seizures are noted in this portion of the record, however, there are bursts of generalized delta seen in the background; some maximum at C4 and can be identified at 10:29.  There are no additional seizures in the overnight recording.  Of note, the EEG electrode quality is variable and there are no definite sharp waves, although there is one suspicious sharp wave in sleep identified at T2, however, the overall quality is poor. The epileptiform activity might have been underestimated.




