CLINICAL HISTORY: 50-year-old woman with a history of light MCA Infarct. traumatic: Injury, refractory seizures, history of alcohol abuse and dally staring spells lasting 30-40 seconds for which she is amnestic.



MEDICATIONS: LEV



INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. This is a technically acceptable routine, awake and asleep EEG capturing hyperventilation and photic stimulation. The background EEG is markedly abnormal. The overall

background Is slow and disorganized. In addition, focal, medium to high amplitude activity is noted with spikes noted at T6 and 02. In addition, left anterior temporal spikes were With stimulation, the patient alerts and there is more of a theta frequency background. The in the right occipital region persist. In addition, there are a handful of spikes In tile light anterior temporal region.



Hyperventilation was performed early on in the record with good effort II seems 10 accentuate tile focal slowing In tile light occipital region and the right occipital sharp waves. Drowsiness Is characterized by an Increase in background slowing. The epileptiform activity in the right occipital and left temporal region persists.



Photic stimulation does not elicit. a driving response. The t5 Hz stimulation may accentual. the epileptiform activity in the right occipital and light frontal and left anterior temporal regions.



At the close of the record, the patient transitions to stage 2 sleep with vertex waves and spindle$. The abundant epileptiform activity continues.



HEART 60 BPM



IMPRESSION: This Is an abnormal EEG due to:

1. A somewhat slow and disorganized background in wakefulness.

2. Abundant epileptiform activity. Right occipital, right frontotemporal and left anterior temporal.



CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG supports 8 complex epileptiform process. The epileptiform activity is noted in the right occipital and left frontotemporal regions. This pattern has been previously described for this individual. The bilateral background slowing is congruent with the CNS Insults that this patient has experienced. No seizures were recorded.




