CLINICAL HISTORY: A 53-year-old male status post hemispherectomy in childhood with chronic static encephalopathy, past history of renal carcinoma, depression, psychiatric issues, behavioral problems, and previous suicide attempt.  Marked cranial deformities.
MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin, insulin, Keppra, Trileptal.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient did not notice any major clonic seizures during the EEG but he was aware of 1 episode of mild jerking on the morning of the 20th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal.  It is relatively suppressed from the right hemisphere and diffusely slow on the left.  Intermittent bursts of slow spike and wave activity were noticed which are present in the frontal regions, left more so than the right.
In contrast to other sections of the record, the bursts on the 19th through the 20th were not associated with clinical changes on a consistent pattern on a consistent basis.  The bursts continued to occur when the patient was relatively drowsy.
The EEG in wakefulness and sleep is quite similar in that the activity remains suppressed on the right and even in apparent sleep, there is still a theta pattern on the left.  The slow spike and wave activity was a bit more prominent in sleep in this section of the record.
Patient event time 9:45:30 on the 20th.  The patient was with the nurse.  The nurse was standing in front of the patient, no jerking is noted and this appears to be a practice push button.
Push button time 10:58:04.  The patient was with the nurse.  The patient is awake.  This appears to be another accidental push button while the patient is getting his sugar checked.
At 10:59:25, after the push buttons, there is a burst of slow spike in wave with no clinical correlate as patient is off camera.
At 10:58, the nurse gives the patient instructions to push the button and to lift his hand if he has the symptoms again, but no additional events are recorded.
Heart rate is 60-80 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This long term video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
A markedly abnormal background with a markedly suppressed pattern on the right.
A slow pattern from the left.
Multiple episodes of left-sided tingling which did not have an EEG correlate.
Bursts of slow spike in wave activity with left frontal maximum, sometimes were associated with movement of the right arm in towards the body and a head drop although this was not always apparent to others.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The findings are congruent with the previous right hemispherectomy and resection of much of the right hemisphere.  The clinical patterns that were recorded localized to the left frontal region both by EEG and seizure semiology and produced little impairment in the patient's day to day function.



