History:	43 YR MALE WITH CC OF INCREASE IN SZS. AND FALLS   PMHX: RASMUSSENS
ENCEPHALITIS (SURGERY ON LEFT.  WITH REFRACTORY SZS.
INCREASED  SEIZURE ACTIVITY.
Medications:	SOLU MEDROL, PHENOBARBITAL, TOPIRAMATE, VIMPAT, ATORVASTATIN,
LISINOPRIL, COUMADIN, LORAZEPAM, PYRIDOXINE,  RITUXIMAB.
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and
subtemporal chain, awake, drowsy, asleep, lethargic, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 44 hours from 04/15/2014 to 04/17/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None.
Description:
There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms at higher amplitudes over
the left hemisphere.  The background over the right hemisphere consists of a mixture of theta, delta,
beta, with unstable 8-9 Hz PDR and weak AP gradient.  No normal background organization is
present over the left.  The background on the left consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude theta
and delta admixed with overriding fast activity.  Patient remains awake throughout the entire
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left posterior quadrant during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent high amplitude almost periodic posterior temporal (T5)
more than left parietal (P3) sharp waves are seen.  Multiple clinical seizures are captured about 18
per hour, lasting ~60-140 seconds.  Electrographically seizures start with left parietal beta discharge
that spreads over the posterior temporal leads and over the left hemisphere increasing in
amplitude and decreasing in frequency. During the last hours the seizure improved to 12 per hour.
Clinically the patient appears to flex his right arm tonically.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent
Sharp waves, frequent
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal awake and sleep 44 hour EEG due to recurrent 60-140 second clinical focal
seizures with left posterior quadrant onset. Continuous focal slowing, frequent epileptiform
discharges and seizures emanating from the left posterior temporoparietal region indicate focal

recording .irritable structural lesion.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  This EEG remains similar to the previous EEG recorded on 03/10/2014.
These findings were conveyed to the primary team.


