History: A 65-year-old woman with vertigo, Meniere's disease. The patient reports Intermittent episodes when she has vertigo she is losing contact for reality. MRI. unremarkable. Long history of Meniere's disease with hearing impaired
in her left ear. She sometimes lose her contact with reality when she has her symptoms.
NOTE
MEDICATIONS:
Insulin, gabapentin. Os-Cal. simvastatin, Prilosec, meclizine, aspirin.
Introduction
Original video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10.20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed. This is an awake and drowsy record.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:
In wakefulness, there is a 9.5 Hz alpha rhythm. There is prominent, bursts of 4.5 activity in the left temporal region. Some
of these have been a notched appearance. Some of these discharges have the appearance of a normal variant, rhythmic
mid theta of drowsiness; however, in the bursts of activity , there is a variability with a 4 to 5 Hz discharge and the later
bursts of rhythmic 4 Hz activity is seen to slow. There are also some bursts of 3Hz activity and some bursts of sharply
contoured delta with a sharp wave. Similar, rhythmic theta can be seen on the right but that is on the left is more of that
frequency evolution and it is typically slower. Hyperventilation does appear to accentuate this activity. This activity is
prominent during photic stimulation. Despite this, bilateral driving response Is noted.
Heart rate 66 BPM.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal EEG due to,
1. Left temporal sharp waves
Although the patient likely has a rhythmic 5 Hz, rhythmic mid temporal theta of drowsiness, there are other waveforms,
which appeared to be epileptogenic in nature. This is unanticipated finding In an individual without previous infarct and/or
other pathology In the temporal regions, a follow up study in stage II sleep is suggested to make sure that this is a
combination of age-related changes plus rhythmic and temporal theta of drowsiness.



