TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG capturing wakefulness and sleep.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 57-year-old right-handed woman with past medical history significant for lung cancer with brain metastasis status post surgical resection on May 2012, hypertension, and heart failure.  She presents with episode of right leg jerking lasting for several minutes.
MEDICATIONS:  Levetiracetam.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the laboratory using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation was not performed, photic stimulation was performed with tracing captures wakefulness through stage 2 sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm is 9 Hz in frequency and 25-30 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening. There is an excessive amount of low amplitude beta activity which is distributed diffusely intermixed with burst of diffuse delta activity 2 to 2.5 Hz in frequency with higher amplitude on the left side.  Stage 1 and stage 2 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha-rhythm slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves and presence of K complexes and a sleep spindles again with higher voltage on the left side, left breach rhythm is noted, most pronounced in the parasagittal region.  There are also intermittent burst of bihemispheric slowing lasting for 1-2 seconds during wakefulness and sleep.  There are occasional burst of left anterior lead and posterior temporal slowing during wakefulness and sleep with the frequency of 1.5 to 2 Hz and amplitude of 50-60 microvolt lasting 1-2 seconds.  They are also rare spikes seen arising from left temporal region during sleep with no evolution.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response.  Heart rate is 70-80 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Intermittent burst of bilateral or bihemispheric slowing.
Occasional left focal slowing during wakefulness.
Breach rhythm in the left parasagittal region.
Rare spikes discharges maximum at C3.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Bihemispheric slowing during wakefulness is consistent with a diffuse encephalopathy and may be due to postictal state.  Other causes include metabolic toxic-hypoxic or infectious encephalopathy, alternatively it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Left temporal slowing is suggestive of structural abnormalities on the left side.  The spikes are suggestive of underlying epileptogenicity and irritability of the left temporal cortex.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medications effect including benzodiazepines, barbiturate, and it could be due to anxiety or hypothyroidism.  Breach rhythm is due to left craniotomy.  Clinical correlation is recommended.



