History:	67 YO MALE S/P MECHANICAL FALL. HAD INCREASED DROWSINESS. FOUND
DIFFUSE SAH. PT HAS A L VENTRIC
Medications:	KEPPRA, LIPITOR, NEURONTIN, CLOMIPRAMINE, MIDODRINE, LOVENOX,
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 38 hours from 03/25/2015 to 03/27/2015 .   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses
and EEG technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team
for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Diffuse, frontally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology are present
throughout the recording.  These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag.  Over
the last 12 hours the triphasics appear to be less prominent in amplitude.  No normal sleep
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 102
Summary of Findings:
Disorganization
Triphasic waves, continuous frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  frequent frontally-maximal triphasic waves and severe
diffuse background slowing.  These findings are indicative of a severe diffuse encephalopathy,
which is etiologically nonspecific, but suggestive of a metabolic origin.






