History:	67 Y O MALE WITH SUDDEN ONSET OF CHANGE IN MENTAL STATUS ON 9-28-
13 @ 7PM. HE TRIES TO SAY WHAT HE WANTS BUT DOES NOT MAKE SENSE,
HAD A SIMILAR EPISODE IN JUNE WHERE HE WAS DIAGNOSED WITH A
Medications:	Depakote.
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9-10 Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over the
right hemisphere.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta
activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Continuous rhythmic delta activity with loss of faster frequencies is present in the left hemisphere
maximal at F7/T3 region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Occasional
polymorphic delta activity is present in the right anterior temporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR IS
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left, with loss of faster frequencies
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, right
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of continuous focal slowing and loss of
faster frequencies in the left anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural
lesion in this region. Loss of faster frequencies is consistent with the history of stroke.  Occasional
focal slowing in the right temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically non-specific.  No electrographic seizures are present.


