
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 41-year-old male with learning disability, childhood epilepsy. The patient admitted to the hospital on the night of the 8th after multiple seizures.  Seizure characteristics in the emergency room included repetitive seizures without postictal impairment as well as unusual or alternating motor behaviors.  Patient states that he was seizure free from infancy until he was assaulted with minor closed head injury a year ago.

MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, phenobarbital, and others.

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This is a technically challenging EEG.  The patient had difficulty cooperating with the study and had low tolerance overall for the requirements of hospitalization.

September 9 through September 10

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Background: In maximal wakefulness, the background EEG includes a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  Some sections of the record demonstrate excess background theta.
Sleep:  In light sleep, vertex waves, POSTs were noted.  Transition to stage 2 sleep was frequently disrupted.  Occasional focal slowing was noted in the left hemisphere, in the transition between drowsiness and deeper stages of sleep.

Interictal epileptiform detections:  Two findings were noted.  One of them seems to be a left hemispheric discharge with rhythmic theta throughout the left hemisphere, maximum frontal/frontotemporal, but with a generous field of spread.  The other finding is a more simple, left temporal sharp waves with a mid to anterior temporal localization.  These tended to occur early in drowsiness or in relaxed wakefulness.  They were not sustained in sleep.

Electrographic seizures:  None.

Heart rate 66 BPM.

IMPRESSION:  This 24 hours of video EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
1. Epileptiform activity in the left hemisphere with 2 patterns, a more focal pattern as well as a somewhat more hemispheric discharge.
2. Intermittent focal slowing from the left hemisphere.
3. Modest background disorganization.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings may be correlated with imaging.  Of note, today, the patient has not experienced one of his typical spells.


DATE OF STUDY:  09/10/2014 to 09/11/2014.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 41-year-old male with childhood epilepsy, patient had improved seizures, but seizures recurred after assault.

INTRODUCTION:  24-hour continuous digital video EEG monitoring continues The patient had no seizures during this section of the EEG.  He did experience nausea, no chest pain.  He was intermittently of cantankerous.  He was easily consoled, however.  A provocation test was performed at 2:00 p.m. on the afternoon of the 10th.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Background:  The waking record is somewhat challenging in part due to muscle and movement artifact.  There is excess theta noted in wakefulness.  In stage 2 sleep, vertex waves, K complexes spindles, and POSTS were noted.

Provocation Test:  The test was explained to the patient at 2 p.m.  The patient provided verbal consent.  The patient hyperventilated for 5 minutes.  This produced an increase in theta.  It also produced an increase in sharp waves and spikes with focal slowing and sharp waves from the left hemisphere with variable fields of spread including frontocentral and others that were more posterior temporal.  The patient remained awake, alert, and conversant.

Seizures:  None.

Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  Very few sharp waves were noted in the background and those that were seen were primarily during the provocation test described above.

Heart rate 66 bpm.

IMPRESSION:  This was the 2nd day of continuous video EEG monitoring.  The overall study was remarkable for:
1. A somewhat slow and disorganized pattern with excess theta.
2. Epileptiform activity primarily from the left hemisphere with subtle and at times not subtle rhythmic theta, and/or sharp waves in the left frontocentral or centrotemporal region.
3. Focal epileptiform activity accentuated by hyperventilation without clinical change.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a localization related mechanism for epilepsy.  Previous outside EEG studies were not available for comparison.  It was not possible to record a seizure for this patient.



