HISTORY:
29 y .o. female referred for routine EEG for continues to have 2 seizures per month (Type #2) which are preceded by feeling "flushed/anxious " and followed by confusion; prior craniosynostosis surgery at the parietal vertex
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
lamotrigine (LAMICTAL) 100 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.
No current facility-administered medications for this visit.
SEDATION: TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) recording using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes was performed utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG , HV and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a high amplitude symmetric and reactive 12 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.
During drowsiness , slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
No generalized slowing is present.	No focal slowing is present . EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES :
EEG
Hyperventilation : produces an increase in amplitude of the
Photic Stimulation: elicits driving
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION :
This is a normal awake-and-drowsy	routine EEG . There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This is a normal awake routine EEG .
A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy . The high amplitude alpha may be due to the patient 's youth.
Prior EEGS not available at this time (2010 study)
Attending Epileptologist : , MD
I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.





