CLINICAL HISTORY: 22 year old female with a history of seizures since age 17. Seizure free since 2010, Diagnosed with lupus  2 years ago.
MEDICATIONS:  Topiramate, prednisone, Plaquenil, others.
INTRODUCTION:  A 40-minute digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, but the overall background is somewhat disorganized.  There is a small amount of shifting slowing and a small amount of background theta.  Drowsiness is characterized by rhythmic theta.  Deeper stages of sleep were not achieved.
Notable in this record are paroxysmal bursts of rhythmic, high amplitude theta, some of which demonstrate frequency evolution.  In addition, there are irregular bursts of 4-5 Hz spike and wave activity noted in the frontal regions.  On occasion, some of these seem to be a bit more prominent in the right.  These bursts are overall, relatively asynchronous.
Hyperventilation produced 1 of these bursts of high amplitude, theta frequency activity with a questionable right frontal spike and slow wave complex as well as some rhythmic theta.
Photic stimulation elicited a bilateral driving response.  The photic stimulation may also have accentuated some of the epileptiform activity, although on the whole.  The epileptiform activity was pre or post the photic stimulation.
Heart rate 96 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to.
Small degree of background disorganization for an adult of this age.
Somewhat irregular asynchronous bursts of high amplitude spike and wave activity as well as paroxysmal theta.
Occasional bursts of shifting, slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is one of many EEGs for this individual.  Previous studies have demonstrated 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity, or independent right or left temporal lobe sharp and slow wave activity.  The findings today are similar to this patient's original EEGs in 2010.



