CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 29-year-old male with daily seizures, many of which include head dropping or stiffening at this time. Vagal nerve stimulator.
MEDICATIONS:  Topiramate, Trileptal, phenobarbital, clonazepam and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the EEG monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The mother reports that the patient had no clinical seizure during this section of the record although she would site that the clinical events on the morning of the 22nd were at 0830 although she forgot to push the button. The mother was provided with a paper log to document seizures and the nurses continued their usual documentation, again, not identifying any seizures.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Abundant sections of this EEG demonstrate a low voltage pattern with a suggestion of an alpha rhythm and generous response to central beta. Slow spike and wave is noted with a bilateral representation, but appeared to be maximum on the left. There are occasional focal sharp waves or high amplitude spikes with various localizations in the left hemisphere, frontocentral or mid temporal. There are a handful of sharp waves noted from the right. Occasional rhythmic 5 Hz of TIRDA is noted from the left anterior temporal region.
In drowsiness, there is TIRDA maximum T1 nearly, so electric at T1 and T3. There are complex spikes some of which start with a lower voltage spike at T7 and more than higher amplitude anterior F7, FP1 spike. There are sections of the record with stage II sleep with relatively extensive areas which are free of epileptiform activity.
Using a referential montage, some of the epileptiform activity is poly spike at T3, A1 and the epileptiform activity has a relatively generous field of spread throughout the left hemisphere.
Heart rate is 84 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This long term video EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
Markedly abnormal background with improvement with medication reduction .
Many epileptiform discharges with many different patterns, some but not all of which, localized to the left hemisphere including some spike and wave, focal spike and way and poly spikes.
A more subtle sharp wave is noted on the right.
What was likely a clinical seizure on the morning of the 22nd characterized by
head dropping.
Another subclinical seizure time February 23rd, 0722:55. The patient is talking to his mother. He is moving about. He looks to the right. The mother does not notice any clinical signs. He turns to the right and snores briefly. The seizure begins at 0722:56 and is characterized by the appearance of rhythmic 7 Hz activity which demonstrates frequency evolution and is over at 0723:18 with characteristic postictal slowing noted in the EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Two seizures, one is the seizure described by the mother with head dropping and two, the seizure with head turning to the right and a bit of snoring. The second seizure is similar to the seizure described in this patient's previous EEG monitoring session  in Puerto Rico although that one was described as left hemispheric fast activity. This seizure is really more of a rhythmic alpha and theta frequency activity with clear phase reversal and a temporal lobe localization.
The EEG is diagnostic of a localization related epilepsy. Additional EEG recording may be of value to more fully characterize this individual's epilepsy.



