REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 30-year-old man status post cranioplasty today with shaking and suspected seizures with a history of TBI and assault and a history of seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Propofol, Versed, Dilantin, Lamictal.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while lethargic.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or normal frontocentral beta although there appears to be some faster frequencies seen best over the right hemisphere compared to the left hemisphere.  No normal sleep architecture was seen and no activating procedures were performed.
Abnormal discharges:
There are focal slow waves seen continuously at F7/T3 and intermittently at F8/T4 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts.
In addition, over the right hemisphere there is an increase of the number of faster frequencies that cannot be clearly seen over the left hemisphere.
Generalized slow waves at 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 50 microvolts.
Lastly, please note at times a posterior dominant rhythm can be seen over the right hemisphere only  which at best reaches 6 Hz.
One focal sharp transient was seen at C4.
Seizures:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to continuous left hemispheric maximum anterior temporal slowing and intermittent right anterior temporal slowing with loss of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere, in addition to generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal structural dysfunction involving white and gray matter in the left hemisphere, maximal in the anterior temporal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the right anterior temporal region in addition to generalized cerebral dysfunction, both of which are nonspecific in regard to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.  The sharp transient seen at C4 is of unclear significance and further recording will help in elucidating its significance.



