CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 59-year-old male with history of hypertension, stroke with left-sided weakness, and meningioma who presents with feeling unsteady and fall, noted having left leg shaking at emergency department.
MEDICATIONS:
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 8-8.5 Hz in frequency, well formed in the left occipital region.  There is 7-8 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness.  There are attenuation and loss of faster frequencies with almost continuous delta activity noted in right frontotemporal region.  Stage I sleep is characterized by further slowing of the background and disappearance of alpha rhythm and appearance of posts and vertex sharp transients.  A stage II sleep was characterized by disappearance of sleep spindles, well formed on the left side.  No epileptiform activities or seizures noted during this recording.  Photic stimulation was performed and results in no driving response.  Heart rate was 80 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity seen in wakefulness.
Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
Almost continuous slowing, with attenuation/loss of faster frequencies in right cerebral hemisphere.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of either toxic/metabolic or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Attenuation and loss of faster frequencies with continuous slowing of the right cerebral hemisphere, most pronounced in frontotemporal region are consistent with the patient's history of stroke.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



