CLINICAL HISTORY:  39 year old right handed female who was assaulted on 08/22/2012 with questionable loss of consciousness, a CT with a meningioma and renal insufficiency, has had a head tremor and headaches. EEG for further evaluation.
MEDICATIONS:  None
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode and an EMG electrode in the head.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Throughout the recording, the patient had head tremors that caused rhythmic electrode artifact mainly in T3, but also at times at P5.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal amount of frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded only in wakefulness.  Activating procedures only included hyperventilation.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal slowing seen intermittently at T3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude 20-60 microvolts.
EPISODES CAPTURED:  During the EEG, the patient even from the beginning had a slow rhythmic 2-3 Hz tremor which involved the head moving right to left slowly.  However, at one point during the EEG after performing hyperventilation, this tremor starting increasing in frequency and becoming more rapid to 6 Hz and causing her whole body to start to shake and she would wince and close her eyes and then open them and look like her eyes were rolling back.  At times, she would move her left arm and move it around in the air.  During this whole time, the technician asked her on multiple occasions to follow commands and do both verbal and motor commands and she would not comply.  After a while, the tremor decreased again to a slower amplitude and she started following commands and talking.  Later on, the tremor again had another episode of worsening and again subsiding.  During the entirety of both episodes, the EEG only revealed the tremor artifact and no epileptiform discharges and no clear correlate to this loss of consciousness.
IMPRESSION:  Normal awake EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: The episodes described above with the head tremor had no EEG correlate.  As such, this is suggestive of a nonepileptic event, which may be psychogenic in nature.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were captured.



