History:	56 year old female residing in a SNF. She has a history includes seizures,
schizoaffective disorder, depression, ESRD, DM, HTN.
Medications:	Dilantin, Citalopram, Levetiracetam, Lorazepam
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
During maximal wakefulness, the background consists of polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude 9
Hz alpha posteriorly, admixed with excessive theta and delta activity and weak AP gradient.
Patient is drowsy and asleep throughout the majority of the recording.  Sleep is characterized by
poorly formed vertex waves and K-complexes.
There is continuous paucity of faster frequencies over the right hemisphere, especially over the
right temporal region.  Several poorly formed low amplitude spikes with aftergoing slow waves are
captured in the right anterior temporal region, with maximal scalp negativity over T2 electrode.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Disorganization, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric, especially temporal region
Spikes and sharp waves, few, right temporal, anterior, phase reversal over T2 lead
Sleep, stage 2
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 25 minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing and
disorganization; (2) continuous moderate right hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the right
temporal region and (3) several right anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse slowing
and disorganization are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over the right.  Epileptiform
discharges eliminating from the right anterior temporal region indicate a potentially epileptogenic
focal structural lesion in the right anterior temporal region.


