STUDY DATE:  11/19/2012 to 11/20/2012
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 53-year-old woman with multiple episodes of staring spells for 1 minute status post right sphenoid wing meningioma resection.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Percocet.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with an additional anterior temporal single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software as well as patient notes and nurses notes were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm of 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures were not performed.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness stage I and stage II and the first stages of sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen continuously over the right hemisphere at F8-T4 and sometimes at T4 with a frequency of 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-50 microvolts.  At times this focal slowing is very sharply contoured but has increased.  Such a frequency is consistent with a breach rhythm.
Focal slow waves seen intermittently at T3 at 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-40 microvolts.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to continuous right anterior temporal to mid-temporal slowing in a setting of a breach in addition to some infrequent left midtemporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral structural dysfunction in the right anterior temporal to mid-temporal region, which is consistent with a known tumor resection.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left mid-temporal region, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures were seen in this 24-hour recording from 11/19/2012 to 11/20/2012.  These findings were reported to the team.



