CLINICAL HISTORY:  16 year old right handed female with 3 months' pregnancy and headaches presents with 2 seizures with eyes rolling back and body shaking for about 2 to 3 minutes.
MEDICATIONS:  None
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures including photic stimulation were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm of 9 to 10 Hz, which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
There were bursts of frontally predominant sharp waves that at times appear to be predominant over the left frontal region at F7/F3, and at times more frontal and less frequently in 1 burst at F8/F4 with afterward only slow waves at times in a rhythmic pattern consistent with a generalized discharge of 4.5 Hz.  These discharges lasted a maximum of 1 second.  At times there were some polyspikes seen, also frontally predominant.  The patient was not tested during these short-lasting discharges.
At the onset of the recording, there were very frequent occipital slow waves, going back and forth from 01 to 02, at times had the morphology of posterior slow waves reviewed but sometimes were more frequently predominant.  It is unclear if these are pathologic or just very frequent posterior slow waves reviewed.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Frontally predominant spike wave discharges, at times more on the left than on the right, and some intermittent occipital slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of epilepsy.  The discharges appear to be generalized in nature, which would be suggestive of generalized epilepsy; however, the intermittent asymmetry of the bursts could also suggest more focal discharge with a rapid spread to the contralateral hemisphere, sometimes seen in frontal localization related epilepsy.  Lastly, there is some mild focal cerebral dysfunction in the occipital region which is nonspecific in regard to etiology.  No seizures were seen.



