CLINICAL HISTORY:  Patient is a 25-year-old man with a history of a left parieto-occipital tumor removal who now presents with worsening right-sided weakness and a change in mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat 100 mg twice per day, Depakote 500 mg twice per day, Klonopin 1 mg twice per day, and phenobarbital 60 mg twice per day.
INTRODUCTION:  Condition of the recording:  The recording is performed according to the standard 10-20 system with the addition of T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead. The recording was performed continuously with audio/video capabilities.  Patient was provided with the event button.  Medical staff notes and nursing staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms at high amplitudes over the left hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere consists of moderate amplitude, well-formed and modulated 9 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly over the right hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere is unstable, which is 8-9 Hz alpha activity.  There is no anterior to  posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the left hemisphere.  The background over the left consists primarily of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity, with the delta activity most pronounced over the left anterior temporal/frontal region.  Normal sleep architecture including sleep spindles, vertex waves, and slow wave sleep is observed.  The patient spent a lot of time in sleep.  No electrographic seizures are captured.
FINDINGS:
Focal left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the anterior temporal/frontal region.
No electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is abnormal 24-hour continuous audio/ video EEG monitoring due to continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing most pronounced anteriorly.  This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and in this patient is partially related to postictal phenomenon.  No electrographic seizures were observed.



