History:	27 year old woman status post cardiac arrest.
Medications:	No AEDs
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse fast
activity admixed with polymorphic delta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior
gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left posterior temporal region.  Continuous
rhythmic 1Hz sharp waves are noted over the left posterior temporal region with phase reversal over
T5 electrode (PLEDs).  There is no temporal or spatial evolution.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There is a lot of movement artifact,
especially in the second half of the recording.  This limits interpretation of the EEG during those
Summary of Findings:
Artifact, movement, frequent, especially in the second half
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, left temporal, posterior, at T5
No electrographic seizures
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left temporal, posterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Beta, excessive
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake-only 21-minute EEG because of diffuse background slowing,
continuous focal left posterior temporal slowing and continuous left posterior temporal periodic
epileptiform discharges that do not evolve into seizures.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to
moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  continuous focal slowing
and periodic epileptiform discharges emanating from the left posterior temporal region are
indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the left posterior temporal region.
Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.  No electrographic seizures are present.  There is a lot of movement artifact, especially
in the second half of the recording.  This limits interpretation of the EEG during those periods.


