History:	52 year old man with a history of left frontoparietal GBM status post resection
several months ago, now presents with worsening right sided weakness and
ambulatory dysfunction.  Patient found to be in focal status epilepticus on a spot
Medications:	Dilantin, Ativan ~ 6 mg, Depakote, Neurontin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~15 hours from 11/12/2014 to 11/13/2014.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real
time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  During
maximal wakefulness, the background over the right hemisphere consists of polymorphic moderate
amplitude 8-9 Hz activity, expected AP gradient and excess theta activity.  The background over
the left hemisphere demonstrates 8 Hz polymorphic theta activity posteriorly, excess theta and delta
activity, weak AP gradient and underriding fast activity over the left posterior quadrant (breach
rhythm).  As the recording progresses, the degree of diffuse excess theta and delta activity
increases.  It correlates with addition of CNS-active medications.  Diffuse excess beta activity
appears later in the recording.  Waveforms similar to K-complexes are present.
Frequent electrographic seizures are noted.  They occur up to 5-7 times per hour.  They are of
variable duration lasting up to 3 minutes.  There is no clear clinical correlate.  Seizures start with
rhythmic moderate amplitude ~5-5.5 Hz spikes with aftergoing slow waves emanating from T5 and
O1 electrodes.  There is a gradual increase in frequency and spread to the P3, C3 and Pz
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, left, posterior quadrant/ posterior temporal-occipital
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, left, mild-to-moderate
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 18-hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to (1) mild diffuse slowing;
(2) continuous mild-to-moderate left hemispheric slowing and (3) frequent recurrent left posterior quadrant seizures (focal status epilepticus) without clear clinical correlate.  Diffuse slowing is electrodes.
EEG on 11/12/2014.
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Increase in the
degree of slowing as the recording progresses is related to increase in the doses/ addition  of CNS-
active medications.There is focal structural epileptogenic lesion over the left - known left
frontoparietal tumor status post several resections.  These findings were conveyed to the primary
team and therapy was adjusted.






