LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  23 minutes.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 63-year-old woman with a history of a right frontotemporal mass status post removal.  Of note, the patient has a history of paresthesias in the left face lasting several seconds.  The patient has an incision at T4 and C4 electrodes.

MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, temozolomide, and others.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of  well-formed and modulated 11 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  A fast alpha variant is frequently observed.  Diffuse excess beta activity is captured.  Occasional LAMBDA is noted.  No normal sleep architecture is captured.  There is continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity observed over the right frontal/anterior temporal region.  Additionally, faster frequencies are captured over the right frontocentral region.  Hyperventilation is performed and produces no significant change in the background.  Stepped photic stimulation results in symmetrical driving at multiple flash frequencies.

FINDINGS:
1. Continuous moderate right frontal/anterior temporal slowing.  Breach over the right frontocentral region.
2. No sleep.
3. No clear epileptiform discharges.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake only 23 minute EEG.  Continuous moderate focal slowing over the right frontal/anterior temporal region indicates underlying focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and in this patient is consistent with a history of a prior mass and removal.  The breach artifact is secondary to skull defect.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not preclude a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.  The excess beta could be secondary to medication effect such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.













