History:	55 year old male with hx seizures with last seizure ~ 1 year ago, now complaining of
dizziness and lightheadedness for the past 5-6 months
Medications:	Keppra, Norvasc, Lisinopril
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9.5Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central
theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Brief bursts of bitemporal theta-delta activity are noted during wakefulness, increasing during
drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does
not produce any effect.  Heart rate <60 bpm and occasional premature QRS complexes are noted
on a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, mild, bilateral temporal
No epileptiform discharges
Sleep, stage 2
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and occasional mild
bitemporal slowing. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Intermittent focal slowing is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  However, in this patient, I
suspect that diffuse slowing and bursts of focal bitemporal slowing are related to excessive
drowsiness.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical
diagnosis of epilepsy.  Heart rate <60 bpm and occasional premature QRS complexes are noted on

a single EKG lead.

