History:	55 yr old  male presents with h/o drowsiness/combative onset x 5 days ago and got
worse x 2 days ago, pt seen in cardiology clinic and noted with drowsiness wit o2 sat
of 80% - in ed pt noted with myoclonic jerking/ stopped with versed
Medications:	Versed/ Turned off at 8:30AM
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for  23 hours from 05/07/2014 to 05/08/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
At onset the background is characterized by low amplitude diffuse delta slow. This improves rapidly
over the next 6 hours.  After 6 hours the waking background is markedly improved to characterized
by a 25-40uV, 8.5 - 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.
Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During
drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 96
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, Improved after the first hours.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of diffuse background slowing and slow
alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  This findings improved over time to a normal EEG suggesting that the findings were
likely due to medication effect.


