History:	58 YR MALE S/P GAMMA KNIFE FOR CEREBRAL METS.  PT HAD SZ WHEN
THEY FOUND METS BRAIN.  NOW WITH ANOTHER SZ 3 WKS AGO.  PMHX:
MALIGNANT NEOPLASM OF COLON, LUNG CA SURGERY, LIVER SURGERY.  PT
GETS CHEMO.  JUST HAD CHEMO TODAY
Medications:
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-30 uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  There is continuous and excessive 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is
present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm
attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  Noxious stimulation induces a facial
Summary of Findings:
Beta, excessive, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is a mildly ABNORMAL 24 hour video-EEG due to diffuse low voltage beta activity. No
epileptiform discharges were present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinically indicated,
repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures are present.  Diffuse beta activity may be a medication effect seen with benzodiazepines
or barbiturates.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





