History:	56 year old woman who presents with focal status epilepticus.  Patient has a history
of stroke, focal seizures and HIV.
Medications:	Depakote, Ativan, Vimpat and Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~20 hours from 1/15/2015 till 1/16/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right consists of 7 Hz PDR posteriorly but poor AP gradient with delta activity
anteriorly and excess polymorphic theta.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of
polymorphic theta and delta activity, predominantly delta activity anteriorly and continuous
anterior temporal periodic epileptiform discharges that occur with a regular repetition rate of ~1-1.5
Hz.  Many of the discharges are accompanied by low amplitude fast activity (PEDs-plus).  Maximal
scalp negativity occurs over Fp1, T3/F7 and F3/C3 leads.  Sleep spindles are captured.
Until ~ 12 PM, occasional seizures that last ~20 seconds to >2 minutes are noted.  Seizures are
characterized by disappearance of PEDs and appearance of fast activity over the left frontal leads
and  rhythmic 4-5 Hz activity over the left temporal/ central leads.  This activity gradually evolves
into rhythmic ~3 Hz left hemispheric delta activity.  This rhythmic delta activity reflects over the
right anterior region.  Starting at ~ 12 PM, very frequent and prolonged (~10 minutes) episodes of
rhythmic left hemispheric (predominantly frontotemporal) ~ 3 Hz delta activity appear.  As the
recording progresses, this activity becomes nearly continuous (focal status  epilepticus).  At the
same time  patient's behavior changes, she becomes more agitated and restless.
Patient is treated with 2 mg of Ativan and continuous rhythmic delta activity stops and is replaced
by 1 Hz PLEDs noted earlier in the recording.  Since intermittent brief anterior quadrant seizures
are still noted, patient received additional 2 mg of  Ativan and is loaded simultaneously with IV
phenytoin.  All ictal activity resolves and ~ 1 Hz quasi-rhythmic (quasi-PLEDs), PLEDs and PLEDs-
plus are noted over the left frontotemporal region for the rest of the recording with no additional
seizures.  Seizures stop by ~ 6-7 pm.  There are several push buttons for events during which
patient claps her hands and sings.  Those are not associated with clear ictal activity.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, left hemispheric
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), nearly continuous, left frontotemporal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric, more so anteriorly
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 20 hours EEG due to (1) mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing;
(2) continuous left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the anterior region; (3) nearly
continuous left frontotemporal epileptiform discharges(PEDs and PEDs-plus), (4) occasional left
hemispheric seizures that are frontotemporal in onset seen early in the recording and (5) frank left
hemispheric status epilepticus from ~ 2pm till  ~ 5 pm that resolves with 4 mg of Ativan and IV
phenytoin load.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  There is epileptogenic focal structural lesion over the left.






