REASON FOR STUDY:  Myoclonus.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 27-year-old male recently discharged from another hospital due to a psychiatric history, found unresponsive, and brought to this hospital and found to have in the urine drug screen positive for heroine, cocaine, and benzodiazepine. He was given Narcan, now intubated, now presenting with myoclonus versus seizures.

MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, propofol drip, Versed drip, Ativan, vecuronium was given during the recording.

INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with Additional anterior temporal single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm.  The background consists of diffuse beta superimposed over what appears to be delta slowing.  There is no normal sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.

Abnormal discharges:
1. Frontal predominant occasional spike and wave discharges which at times with stimulation progressed to frontal central predominant spike and wave discharges with a clinical correlate of muscle twitching and jerking consistent with myoclonus.  These are more severe with focal or stimulation.
2. Generalized slow waves with intermixed beta seen diffusely.
Heart rate: 108.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to myoclonus with an EEG correlate of frontal centrally predominant spike and wave, in addition to generalized slowing and excessive beta.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction which is nonspecific in regards to etiology.  The clinical myoclonus had an EEG correlate and the underlying etiology of this discharge is unclear.  It may be seen in generalized or diffuse cortical injury, such as hypoxia, hypoglycemia, or medication induced, rarely this is seen in the setting of underlying epilepsy.  No other clear seizures were seen.  This was informed to the primary team as the EEG was performed.




