History:	51 year old man status post left ICH status post hematoma evacuation.
Medications:	Keppra, Oxycodone, Zocor, Trazodone, Others
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right consists of well formed and modulated 10-11 Hz alpha posterior and
expected AP gradient.  The background over the left consists of polymorphic unstable 8-9 Hz
activity posteriorly, absent AP gradient and primarily polymorphic theta activity with overriding
sharply contoured delta activity, especially pronounced over the midtemporal-central  region.
Additional, underriding fast activity is noted over the left midtemporal-central region.  Diffuse
excess beta activity is present.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow
No clear epileptiform discharges are observed.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at
multiple flash rates.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left, midtemporal-central
Breach artifact, left, midtemporal-central
Beta, excessive
No epileptiform discharges
No stage 2 sleep
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 43-minute EEG due to continuous moderate left
midtemporal-central focal slowing. This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this
region.  No clear epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If
clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.  Breach
artifact is secondary to a skull defect.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication
effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.




