History:	59 YO FEMALE P/W ENDOBRONCHIAL MASS OBSTRUCTIVE ATELECTASIS.
LTM TO R/O SUBCLINICAL STATUS. myoclonic jerking vs sz HX OF LUNG CA
Medications:
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
obtunded, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  The background is diffusely suppressed but is punctuated by intermittent myoclonus
affecting the upper extremities, and trunk and face.  The myoclonus recurrent and persistent lasting
from less than a second to 2-3 seconds.  There is excessive beta activity seen.  No normal sleep
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present despite the continuous myoclonus.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Artifact, movement, intermittent diffuse
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
The presence of myoclonus in the setting of possible hypoxia is a poor prognostic indicator for full
recovery.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the

architecture was present.primary team.





