History:	54 YO FEMALE WITH A HX OF SEIZURES
ADMITTED TO EMU FOR SEIZURE EVALUATION.
Medications:	TRILEPTAL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral anterior temporal  region (left more
than right)  during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  At times this is sharply countoured.
Two focal sharp waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F8/T4. There
are also two suspicious F7/T3 sharp transients present.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR was
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, few, right temporal, anterior
Sharp transients, few, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, bilateral (L>R) temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of epileptiform discharges in the
right anterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in
this region, and given the clinical history of partial seizures, are consistent with a diagnosis of
localization-related epilepsy.  The sharp transients on the left anterior temporal region are
suspicious but not clearly epileptogenic. Lastly there is  intermittent focal slowing in the bilateral
anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is




