CLINICAL HISTORY:  67 year old right handed female with a history of metastatic renal cell cancer and metastasis to the right femur who presents to the hospital with episodes of loss of consciousness witnessed by her nephew.  Several minutes later the patient felt dizzy, hot, and sweaty.  The patient later was shaking and her eyes rolled back in the head.
MEDICATIONS:  Diovan, Norvasc, Percocet, Zofran, Lovenox.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Change in mental status.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  The EEG has continuous sweat artifact and motion artifact which makes the reading difficult.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is a normal amount of frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures were not performed.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen at F7/T3 and at F8/T4, intermittently and independently at 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts.
Focal sharp waves are seen independently at T3 and T4 occasionally.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Independent bitemporal sharp waves.
Anterior temporal independent slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This limited EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures possibly arising from either temporal lobe.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the bilateral anterior temporal regions, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  No seizures were seen.  Please note that this was a very limited EEG with continuous artifact, which makes the reading difficult.  In order to further evaluate this patient, it would be helpful to have a repeat EEG with better quality recording, capturing deeper stages of sleep.  The findings on this EEG were reported to the consult team.



