CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 50-year-old gentleman who suffered a cerebral abscess in the 90's, subsequent development of epilepsy with four seizures per month.  He reports seizures began with a feeling of numbness or burning in his feet followed by loss of awareness with tongue biting, incontinence following generalized shaking.  Last seizure two weeks ago.  Seizures have increased with life's stress.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was awake and conversant throughout.  He has a prominent, frontal craniotomy.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This is an unusual and dynamic EEG.  Some sections of the record demonstrate a pretty well organized background with a lower voltage alpha rhythm of 11 Hz and some lower voltage frontocentral theta.  Other sections of the record demonstrated bursts of high amplitude, bifrontal sharp waves or spikes.  These occur with the patient relaxing comfortably but were accentuated by hyperventilation.  The epileptiform activity is usually bilateral but can be maximum in the right or left frontal region.  There can be a polyspike component at FP1, F3 or FP2.  The bursts of slow spike-and-wave activity are associated with background slowing, and bursts of epileptiform activity or bursts of slowing with epileptiform may be on the order of two seconds or longer.  Aside from these bursts, the patient is awake, alert, and conversant.  The bursts are brief enough that it is difficult to determine if they are clinically significant.
Heart rate:  72  BPM.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Burst of slow, frontal spike-and-wave activity.
Associated focal slowing noted with these bursts.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In the context of this patient's significance neurosurgical history, the location of the epileptiform activity is anticipated.  Despite the bursts of slowing, the patient was relatively asymptomatic.  In this individual with frequent seizures, additional EEG recording may be of value.



