CLINICAL HISTORY:  58 year old right handed gentleman with a past medical history of posttraumatic seizures, now admitted with significant cerebellar hemorrhage with intraventricular, found to have episodes of left upper extremity shaking and right upper extremity posturing, concerning for seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video continuous EEG monitoring performed according to the standard 10-20 EEG system and a single additional EKG electrode.  Automatic spike detection and seizure detection programs were implemented.  Nursing notes and medical staff notes were reviewed.  This study was reviewed intermittently by an attending physician on several occasions. Approximately 14 hours, from approximately 5:00 p.m. on 09/13/2012 until approximately 7:00 a.m. on 09/14/2012.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no clear posterior dominant rhythm.  There is a right to left interhemispheric asymmetry.  The background over the right hemisphere consists of polymorphic low to moderate amplitude mixture of alpha and theta activities with under-riding faster frequencies.  During maximal wakefulness, very weak anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient is observed over the right hemisphere.  The background over the left hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and alpha as well as delta activity with under-riding faster frequencies.  There is no clear anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient observed over the left hemisphere.  Additional continuous polymorphic delta activity is observed over the left lateral leads, as well as left frontal leads.  Brief fragmented sleep is captured.  There is asymmetry of sleep architecture with better formed sleep spindles and vertex waves over the right hemisphere.  There are frequent episodes of abnormal independent right upper extremity and left upper extremity activity.  Episodes of right upper extremity activity are described as right upper extremity posturing flexion followed by brief right upper extremity and shoulder jerk.  Left upper extremity episodes are described as brief shaking of left upper extremity and jerks at the left shoulder.  These episodes are more pronounced during wakefulness and periods of agitation.  If the patient is asleep, episodes of right upper extremity posturing/flexion would wake him up.  There is no abnormal EEG correlate with any of these episodes.  Photic stimulation and hyperventilation are not performed.
FINDINGS:
Focal left temporal/frontotemporal moderate slowing.
Independent episodes of abnormal right upper extremity posturing flexion and shoulder jerking, as well as independent left upper extremity episodes of brief shaking and jerking of the left shoulder.  These episodes are not associated with an abnormal ictal correlate.
No clear electrographic seizures are captured.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:   This is an abnormal approximately 14-hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to continuous moderate left temporal/frontotemporal slowing as well as frequent independent episodes of abnormal left upper extremity and right upper extremity movements.  Focal slowing indicates likely an underlying focal structural abnormality.  Episodes of abnormal independent upper extremity movements are not associated with clinical correlate; however, these may represent simple partial seizures.  Simple partial seizures are observed only in approximately 25% of the time on a scalp EEG.  These findings were communicated to the primary team at the time they were viewed.



