
History:		78 YO FEMALE FOUND UNRESPONSIVE AND WITH INTERMITTENT SHAKING. RIO SZ. PT WAS HYPOTHERMIC FOLLOW UP STAT PROLONG EEG 7/13/2014 FOR AMS, RIGHT ARM AND FACIAL TWITCH VS SUBCLINICAL SZ.

PMHX: LEFT CVA, SZ, HTN, HLD
Medications:	Ativan, Dilantin


Sedation: EEG Type: Technique:


Lorazepam
Continuous (inpt, video}, 24 hrs, portable
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep



Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from 07/13/2014 to 07/14/2014. Nursing? initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events


Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present. Background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies. No normal sleep architecture was present.

Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right midtemporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. No epileptiform discharges are present. No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.

Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed. There was no reactivity to auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli. HR was 60 The EEG interpretation was limited due to almost continuous muscle artifact.

Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, right temporal, mid
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked diffuse No epileptiform discharges

Interpretation:
This is an technically limited ABNORMAL EEG because of intermittent focal slowing in the right midtemporal region. This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non? specific. In addition there is diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm. These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.

.

