History:	69 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O STATUS EPILEPTICUS, NOTED WITH 5
WIT SZ AND 3 IN UNIT
Medications:	PHENOBARBITAL, KEPPRA, DILANTIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 28 hours from 05/05/2014 to 05/06/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  There is superimposed excessive diffuse beta seen.  No normal sleep architecture
was present despite prolonged clinical sleep.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left parietal region during wakefulness.
Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) are present in the P3/T5 region at a rate of 0.5
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 66
Summary of Findings:
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, left posterior quadrant
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  continuous periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges
(PLEDs) in the left parietal region.  These findings are indicative of a highly potentially
epileptogenic acute focal destructive lesion in the region.  No electrographic seizures are present.
In addition there is diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



