AGE: 48 y.o.
SEX: female
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient EEG TYPE: Routine, 40 min
EEG #: 15-1414
HISTORY:
a 48 y.o. female referred for EEG for a history of bilateral cerebrovascular disease and confusion.
MEDICATIONS:
Seroquel, Plaquenil, Humulin SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.
Events were marked by the clinical staff. BACKGROUND:
The waking background is continuous and asymmetric.
The left hemisphere is well organized with a posterior dominant rhythm of 8 Hz, with a moderate amount of frontal beta activity. The right hemisphere is poorly organized with no posterior dominant rhythm, and consists of mostly delta with admixed theta activity; faster frequencies are attenuated.
The background is reactive and variable.
Drowsiness is characterized by further background slowing. Sleep is not captured.
There is mild generalized slowing.
There is abundant left hemispheric polymorphic delta slowing; occasionally this slowing has a semi-rhythmic quality.
There is continuous right hemispheric polymorphic delta slowing. PAROXSYMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) : None.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
Occasionally, the left hemispheric delta slowing develops a rhythmic quality at 2 Hz for <5 sec
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
EVENTS: No clinical or electrographic events were reported or detected.
HEART RATE: A heart rate of 96 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal study due to:
Mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction
Abundant left hemispheric polymorphic slowing
Continuous right hemispheric polymorphic slowing and attenuation of faster frequencies
Occasional rhythmic left hemispheric slowing
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings are consistent with right hemispheric dysfunction and cortical injury, and independent (and lesser extent) left hemispheric dysfunction,
superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Occasionally, the left hemispheric slowing becomes rhythmic, which is suggestive of hyperexcitability.
There were no clinical or electrographic seizures.





