History:	22 year old man with a history of tuberous sclerosis and seizures.
Medications:	Banzel, Onfi, Klonopin, Valium, Risperdal, versed, ativan
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~15 hours from 04/27/2015 till 04/28/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  l representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses
and EEG technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team
for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  The waking background consists of a mixture of low
amplitude fast activity admixed with bursts of rhythmic delta activity.
There is abundant complex epileptiform activity.  Generalized fast spike and wave discharges,
polyspikes, independent right and left temporal sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves, and
generalized paroxysmal fast activity are noted.  Generalized epileptiform discharges frequently
occur in brief runs.  Several episodes of head nodding/ dropping are captured.  They are associated
with transitions from sleep to drowsiness without an abnormal ictal correlate.
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes, fast
Sharp waves multifocal
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal ~15 hour continuous video EEG due to diffuse background slowing and
disorganization as well as abundant complex multifocal and generalized epileptiform discharges.
This pattern indicates diffuse cerebral dysfunction and multifocal cortical and subcortical
excitability.  Episodes of head nodding are associated with transitions from sleep to drowsiness
rather than ictal runs.




