History:	51 year old man status post anoxic brain injury.
Medications:	Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~13 hours from 3/14/2015 till 3/15/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of burst-suppression, with variable burst-
suppression ratio.  Early in the recording, bursts generally last ~1 second with some intervals of
suppression lasting up to 40-50 seconds.  Clinically, bursts are associated with complex facial
movements/ twitching and eye opening.  Electrographically, bursts contain high amplitude sharply
contoured theta and delta activity and intense EMG artifact.  There is a subtle generalized
occipitally predominant spike and wave discharge at the beginning of each burst, but due to
presence of  EMG artifact, presence of this spine and wave is not certain.  As the recording
progresses, bursts become longer with clear generalized occipitally predominant spike and wave
activity seen within the bursts.  Additionally, as the recording progresses, facial movements resolve
and only eye openings are associated with  each burst of activity.  No normal sleep architecture is
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Burst-suppression pattern
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous ~13 hour video EEG due to burst-suppression pattern with bursts
of activity that correlate with clinical facial movements/ twitching/ eye opening and contain clear
epileptiform discharges.  These findings indicate severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction and increase
cortical irritability.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.







