History:	43 YR FEMALE WITH PMHX SZS SINCE AGE 13. STRONG FAMILY HX.  ALSO
CVA 2008. LEFT WEAKNESS. COMPLICATED MIGRAINES,  PITUITARY TUMOR
FOUND 08. FOLLOWED. ALSO MULTI CANCERS. CERVICAL X3 80'S/90'S, NECK
90'S, MULTI MYELOMA 05, COLON 09.  LAST CHEMO 1 YR AGO. PT
Medications:	Tegretol, topamax, nortriptyline, meclizine, plaquenil, neurontin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Frequent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  At time this delta is monomorphic for 3-4 seconds
consistent with temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA).  Rare polymorphic delta
activity is present independently in the right midtemporal region during wakefulness, increasing
during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  HR was 72
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, rare, right temporal, mid
TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, left temporal, anterior
Excessive fast, marked diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of intermittent focal slowing and
TIRDA in the left anterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of an area of focal
cerebral dysfunction and TIRDA has high correlation with epilepsy arising from that region. In
addition the is rare independent  intermittent focal slowing in the right midtemporal region.  This
finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific. Lastly, the
excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or

sleep spindles and K complexes appear.barbiturates.





