History:	61 YO FEMALE PRESENTS W/ SOB. SHE WAS WORKING TO BREATH WHEN
EMS ARRIVED. SHORTLY THEIR AFTER PT LOST PULSE PEA CODE STARTED.
EMS REPORTED 4 - 5 MINS, HUSBAND REPORTED 10 - 15MIN.
Medications:	NITRO, BREVIBLOC, INSULIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 01/08/2014 to 01/09/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
attenuation with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  Over time
the amplitude has markedly decreased and the background is almost continuously suppressed.  No
normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Frequent periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges in the right
frontal region. These occur continuously at about 1-2 Hz. However  they  slowly became less
pronounced and have disappeared for the last hours of this record.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 96.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges)
Attenuation
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL limited EEG because of marked diffuse background attenuation is an
indicator of severe cortical dysfunction, but may be in part due to medication effect. In addition the
right frontal PLED's have subsided during the last hour of the record. These discharges are usually
seen in the setting of an underlying irritable cortex.  No seizures were seen.

