CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is an adult with a history of closed head injury late 2012, significant bifrontal encephalomalacia, recently discharged from rehab but found to have a right temporal subdural hematoma.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Keppra and Ativan.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was somnolent but intermittently agitated.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
February 11- 12 is markedly abnormal.  Throughout much of the record, it is primarily a slow theta pattern on the right.  The left hemisphere demonstrates epileptiform activity with complex field of spread typically most remarkable in the left posterotemporal or parietal region but sometimes in the left frontal region as well.
Intermittent bursts in this periodic complex epileptiform activity were noted, sometimes with associated theta frequency activity and on 2 occasions at 9:30 and at 10:20 p.m. with a bit more sustained bursts.
The patient also had intermittent arousals although he was not particularly interactive.  After receiving 4 mg of Ativan for both of these, the overall background was significantly slower and the EEG transitioned more to a periodic complex in the left hemisphere with polyphasic activity and fast activity.  The overall background remained quite slow with intermittent bilateral attenuation.  Stimulation of the patient would produce an alerting response.
This first 24 hour section starts in the afternoon and by the morning of the 12th, there is an increase in faster frequency activity.  Sustained bursts are noted with some frequency evolution including at 9:40 a.m. but stimulation of the patient also produces an increase in faster frequency activity.
By 9:53 a.m. the patient is somewhat interactive with the nurse and intermittently attempts to get out of bed.  When he does so, there is a bit more faster frequency activity on the right but the epileptiform activity on the left really remains unchanged with a periodic pattern with some buildup but without definitive frequency evolution.
Additional doses of Ativan were given on the morning of the 12th, again producing attenuation on the right and faster frequency activity on the left.
Heart rate 96 BPM.
Events at 11:26 p.m. and 11:51 p.m. on the evening of the 11th were not associated with definitive epileptiform discharges and may have represented arousals.
INTRODUCTION:  During this 24-hour section of the EEG, the patient received Ativan, Keppra, Dilantin and Serax 60 mg three times daily.  The patient remained relatively obtunded, intermittently arousable.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  The background EEG remains markedly abnormal with a relatively low voltage and slow pattern on the right.  The left hemisphere demonstrates a periodic complex with a relatively large field of spread, maximum at P3 T5, sometimes involving the left anterior temporal region.  It waxes and wanes, does not disappear and there is some buildup noted intermittently.
There are bursts of epileptiform activity which show some frequency evolution but without the characteristic start and stop of a typical epileptiform seizure, however particularly at 2:50 a.m. on the morning of the 13th, the pattern described above is certainly one of a late status epilepticus pattern.
By 8:00 a.m., the epileptiform activity seems to be waning a bit but remains continuous.  Only the periodic nature of it is slowing a bit.
A more clearly defined seizure is noted with more clear frequency evolution at 9:52.  Seizure onset is difficult to determine but there is clearly an increase in epileptiform activity.  No clinical signs are noted and this discharge seems to be stopping.  The seizure is about 3 minutes in duration but seizure on and offset is difficult to define.  Intermittent bursts of sharp waves and spikes are noted out of the left hemisphere in an otherwise bilaterally suppressed background without so much buildup.
Stimulation of the patient at 2 p.m. produces an increase in faster frequency activity in the background.
Additional subclinical seizures are noted at 2:21.  The patient is responsive during the seizures with eye opening and looking about despite the epileptiform pattern.
Heart rate 96 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  When reviewed at a slower paper speed, this EEG monitoring session is really most compatible with a late status epilepticus pattern.  Subclinical seizures were noted in an individual who is confused but actually responsive during the seizures.



