History:	23 year old female with 3 generalized tonic-clonic convulsions.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~18 hours from ~ 1 pm on 10/10/2013 till ~ 7 am on
10/11/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.  The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central
theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 18-hour continuous video EEG due to mild diffuse slowing that is indicative
of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but could be related to
excessively drowsy patient.  No electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed
to the primary team.


