History:	62 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS ON 8/15/2015  WITH H/O CHANGE IN MENTAL
STATUS AND UNRESPONSIVENESS, PER EMS PT BECAME AGITATED/UPSET
THEN SLUMPED TO THE GROUND- NO REPORTED SZ. PT NOTED WITH 2 SZ
EVENTS ON 8/16/15
Medications:	LORAZEPAM
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central
theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
induces symmetric photic driving.  HR was 90 and irregular
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive, mild diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of intermittent focal slowing in the
left anterior temporal  region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific. In addition there is mild  diffuse background slowing.  This finding is
indicative of severe mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. Lastly there
is  a short sleep latency which may be suggestive of a sleep disturbance. A sleep evaluation may





