History:	59 year old man with a history of seizures, now presents with seizure recurrence.
Medications:	Ativan, Dilantin, Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~16 hours from 05/02/2015 till 05/03/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
During periods of arousals, the background consists of a mixture of low amplitude fast activity and
polymorphic theta activity.  Normal sleep architecture, including sleep spindles and REM sleep is
captured.
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is present over the left temporal and left occipital
region.  Multiple electrographic seizures are captured. Their frequency varies from ~1-4 per hour.
Patient is able to speak during his events, but he appears confused. They last ~ 25-40 seconds.
Electrographically, seizures start with low amplitude rhythmic ~ 4-5 Hz activity over the left
temporal region.  This activity rapidly spreads to the left occipital region.  Over the left temporal
region the activity persists as 4-5 Hz rhythmic moderate  amplitude theta activity, but over the left
occipital region it evolves in ~ 8-9 Hz rhythmic activity that later too evolves into  rhythmic theta-
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, intermittent, left temporal, occur 1-4 times per hour, last 25-40 seconds
Beta, excessive
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left temporal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal ~ 16 hours continuous video EEG due to (1) diffuse background slowing; (2)
continuous left temporal focal slowing and (3) intermittent left temporal electrographic seizures that
occur 1-4 times per hour and last ~ 25-40 seconds.  These findings indicate focal structural lesion
over the left temporal region.  Additionally, there is diffuse etiologically non-specific slowing.
Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.
delta activity.




