DATE OF STUDY:  09/10/2014 to 09/11/2014.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 41-year-old male with childhood epilepsy, patient had improved seizures, but seizures recurred after assault.
INTRODUCTION:  24-hour continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed.  The patient had no seizures during this section of the EEG.  He did experience nausea, no chest pain.  He was intermittently of cantankerous.  He was easily consoled, however.  A provocation test was performed at 2:00 p.m. on the afternoon of the 10th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  The waking record is somewhat challenging in part due to muscle and movement artifact.  There is excess theta noted in wakefulness.  In stage 2 sleep, vertex waves, K complexes spindles, and POSTS were noted.
Provocation Test:  The test was explained to the patient at 2 p.m.  The patient provided verbal consent.  The patient hyperventilated for 5 minutes.  This produced an increase in theta.  It also produced an increase in sharp waves and spikes with focal slowing and sharp waves from the left hemisphere with variable fields of spread including frontocentral and others that were more posterior temporal.  The patient remained awake, alert, and conversant.
Seizures:  None.
Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  Very few sharp waves were noted in the background and those that were seen were primarily during the provocation test described above.
Heart rate 66 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This was the 2nd day of continuous video EEG monitoring.  The overall study was remarkable for:
A somewhat slow and disorganized pattern with excess theta.
Epileptiform activity primarily from the left hemisphere with subtle and at times not subtle rhythmic theta, and/or sharp waves in the left frontocentral or centrotemporal region.
Focal epileptiform activity accentuated by hyperventilation without clinical change.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a localization related mechanism for epilepsy.  Previous studies were not available for comparison.  It was not possible to record a seizure for this patient.



