History:	42 year old woman with a history of focal seizures
Medications:	Vimpat, Neurontin, Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
During maximal wakefulness, the posterior dominant rhythm consists of low-to-moderate amplitude
10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  The PDR is less well formed
over the left.  There is AP gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes present anteriorly.
AP gradient is less well formed over the left hemisphere.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.
Symmetrical vertex waves and sleep spindles are captured.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left posterior quadrant during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Additional, less prominent polymorphic theta and delta activity is
present over the right posterior quadrant.  Intermittent low amplitude spikes with after going high
amplitude slow waves are captured over the left anterior quadrant.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs
over F7/T1 and T3 electrodes.  These discharges have a broad field and increase in frequency
during  drowsiness/ sleep.  Occasional independent right anterior quadrant slow amplitude spikes
with after going slow waves are noted.   Maximal scalp negativity occurs over Fp2 and F8 electrodes.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with fair cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional
abnormalities.  EKG artifact is present.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left posterior, mild-to-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right posterior, mild-to-moderate
Beta, excessive
Spikes, intermittent, left anterior, increase during drowsiness and sleep
Spikes, occasional, right anterior
Sleep, stage 2
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 28 minute EEG due to continuous mild-to-moderate left
posterior quadrant focal slowing, less pronounced mild-to-moderate right posterior quadrant focal
slowing, intermittent left anterior quadrant and independent occasional right anterior quadrant
epileptiform discharges.  Focal slowing is indicative of a focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural
in etiology.  There are two independent potentially epileptogenic foci over the bilateral anterior
quadrants.  No seizures are present.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication
effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team
and patient was placed on continuous EEG monitoring.

