CLINICAL HISTORY:  58 year old right handed man with a history of a gunshot wound to the head 20 years ago, seizures, hypertension and sarcoid, who presented to the hospital after having 3 seizures. He was noted to have periodic twitching in the ED, but was alert, following commands and verbal.  He was found to have an acute intraventricular hemorrhage.
MEDICATIONS:  Protonix, Pantoprazole, Ativan.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement with the addition of anterior temporal single lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a mildly slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 8 Hz which appears to be somewhat reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures were not performed.  At one point the patient appears to have some sleep architecture reminiscent of stage I sleep with some vertex movements decreased, muscle activity and later on what appears to be stage II with sleep spindles.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen in the left hemisphere maximal at T3 continuously throughout the recording at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
Focal slow waves seen intermittently at T4 at a frequency 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 mV.
Generalized slowing at 5-10 Hz seen throughout the recording.
SEIZURES:   None
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Left mid temporal continuous slowing.
Some right mid temporal slowing.
Mild generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left mid temporal region which is consistent with the known gunshot wound and hemorrhage.  In addition, there is mild focal cerebral dysfunction in the right mid temporal region as well as some mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, both of which are nonspecific in regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.



