CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 25-year-old woman who presents with history of new onset seizure-like activity.  Seizure is described as sudden onset of feeling bad smell or seeing colors or at times numbness and tingling in the left face and arm followed by loss of consciousness with no convulsion.  The episode usually last for a few minutes.  She also had, at times, she may experience staring spells lasting 25-30 seconds noted by her boyfriend.
MEDICATIONS:  Trileptal 300 mg b.i.d., vitamin D, Elavil, and Celexa.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the EMU using a standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement and 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Records were daily reviewed for EEG abnormalities and clinical events.  Sleep and wakefulness were captured.  There was an automated spike in seizure detection system in place as well as patient activated alarm system.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Interictal EEG description:  In the most alert state, there was a posterior dominant rhythm with frequency of 10-11 Hz, 30-80 microvolts in amplitude seen in the occipital region.  There was presence of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which was distributed symmetrically.  A stage 1 sleep was characterized by the disappearance of alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of eye blink and muscle artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves and posts.  The stage 2 sleep was characterized by the presence of K complexes, sleep spindles.  A slow-wave sleep and REM sleep were also captured.  No interictal epileptiform abnormalities or evidence of focally slowing were noted.  Heart rate was approximately 70 to 90 beats per minute.
CLINICAL EVENTS:  On 08/08/2013, there was 1 pushbutton event during photic stimulation noted by technician at 1:21 p.m.  Patient was sitting on the bed complaining of smelling funny lasting for 10 seconds without any change in mental status or abnormal movements.  This episode was not associated with ictal change on EEG.
IMPRESSION:  This is a normal video EEG monitoring.  No interictal epileptiform abnormalities were identified in this record.  The patient reported a smell of something funny, lasting 10 seconds.  At 1:21 p.m., on 08/08/2013, which were not associated with ictal change on EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  Please note that simple partial seizures are not always associated with changes on a scalp EEG.  The patient's habitual seizures were not captured.  If seizures are a clinical concern, a repeat prolonged video EEG monitoring may be helpful.



