CLINICAL HISTORY: A 54-year-old woman with hypertension, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. Status post TCI in 2010 and 2011. The patient found in a homeless shelter, difficult to arouse. Evaluate for seizure.
MEDICATIONS: Remeron, Seroquel, Depakote, Lipitor, and midazolam.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed using the standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient had a prolonged event with unresponsiveness and rocking activity on May 14th at 10:09 a.m.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG is well-organized with symmetric reactive alpha rhythm and a small amount of low-voltage, frontal central beta. Stage II sleep includes vertex waves, K-complexes, spindles, and posts.
INTERICTAL EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY: None.
EVENTS: At 10:09 a.m. The patient is with a nurse and has been interacting with the nurse. The patient starts to make motions such as diffuse praying or as if she has a headache. Then she starts to bobble her head. She gently falls over to her side and then she lies in the bed and rocks back and forth. The rocking is initially gentle and then quite profound. She starts to knock off the EEG electrodes and the team rewraps the head. Even when she is not moving, she is unresponsive to a visitor.
Although there is a great deal of movement artifact, when not moving, there is a clear awake pattern with an alpha rhythm.
She is evaluated and consulted by many physicians and nurses during the event. The rocking continued slowly at 10:36 and the event appears to be over at 10:42.
Heart rate 60 BPM.
IMPRESSION: This 24-hour section of video EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
1. The absence of interictal epileptiform activity.
2. A behavioral event without an EEG signature.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This more than 30 minute event was characterized by impairment of awareness and bilateral motor activity with a well-defined awake EEG when the patient was not moving. These features are strongly suggestive of a non-epileptic disorder.



