History:	41 YO FEMALE WITH SZ'S THAT START 3 YEARS AGO, SHORTLY AFTER
STARING CHEMO / MEDS. MOST RECENT SZ WERE A FEW WEEKS BACK IN
DR'S OFFICE, PT REPORTS 7 SZ'S AND WAKING IN ED. R/O SZ DUE TO
Medications:
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  There was excess 7Hz theta activity during wakefulness.  During
drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Occasional polymorphic delta activity is present in the left mid posterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Independent intermittent polymorphic delta activity is
present in the right temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  No
epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR 70
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral (R>L) temporal, Independent
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of diffuse background slowing and slow
alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  Intermittent independent focal slowing in the bitemporal regions (R>L) are indicative
of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.  The lack of epileptiform
discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.

