REASON FOR STUDY: Rule out seizures.
HISTORY: A 57-year-old woman with recent onset of staring spells for about 2 days lasting for 30 seconds. These spells have consisted o f mainly left sided gaze deviation. The patient also has a history of breast cancer and HIV.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES: None.
MEDICATIONS: Methadone, Protonix, lovenox, and azithromycin.
INTRODUCTION: A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode. The patient was recorded while confused and drowsy. Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The record opens up to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 8 5 Hz which appears to be reactive to eye-opening. There IS some frontocentral beta seen. The patient is recorded mainly In wakefulness and drowsiness. Activating procedures were not performed.
DISCHARGES: Excessive theta in wakefulness at 5-7 Hz seen throughout the recording at times with intermixed delta.
SEIZURES: During the recording there were 3 seizures seen. On the EEG there appears to be right frontal. Specifically at F4, theta discharge that appears to spread throughout the right central and right frontal regions and continues to increase In amplitude and decrease in frequency remaining mainly over the right hemisphere. As the seizure continues it slows down in frequency to a high amplitude delta sharp waves that are maximal at F4. The seizures last for about 1 minute. Clinically. The patient appears to lift up the head and look towards the left. It is not clear if she is unresponsive throughout the event as there is no good audio on the video for the EEG.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due lo 3 seizures arising from the right frontal region in addition to moderate diffuse slowing.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with 3 seizures arising from the right frontal region. In addition, there is evidence of mild to moderate diffuse which IS nonspecific with regards to etiology. These findings were reported to the as they were seen.



