CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 46-year-old woman with a seizure disorder since age 3 secondary to lead poisoning.

MEDICATIONS: Tegretol.

INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG is performed at the bedside in the Long-Term Monitoring Unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates interhemispheric asymmetry with low voltage and slowing in the right hemisphere. In wakefulness, there is an 8 to 9 Hz, 30 ?V posterior dominant rhythm, disrupted in the right hemisphere. There is a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity identified.  During light sleep, mild slowing with left temporal sharp waves were noted.

During long-term monitoring, the patient reported several events, with her typical left-sided warming and numbness, but she did not push the button.  No EEG correlates were seen for these symptoms.

First Event 6:34 AM:  The feeling of left arm warming begins.  The video demonstrates the patient moving or shaking her left arm with some circular movements.  Left arm swinging is rhythmic and was associated with arching of the back.  The movements waxed and waned.  There was no change in the EEG during this time.  No testing was preformed.

Second Event 8:06 AM:  The patient's left arm begins to move in a circular motion with waxing and waning amplitude without rhythmic shaking. Similar posturing of the head was seen. No EEG correlate was identified. No testing was preformed

RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP: During the evening and at night, the patient did not sleep very well and was awake most of the time.

HR:  80 BPM.

IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG for a subject of this age due to:
1. Interhemispheric asymmetry.
2. Low voltage and slowing in the right hemisphere with disruption of the alpha rhythm.
3. Mild slowing in the left hemisphere with rare left temporal sharp waves.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: This long-term EEG tracing included multiple behavioral  events without EEG correlate. In combination with her record of July 31 to August 1, multiple events were recorded beginning with the patient's subjective feeling of left-arm warming and irregular movements. No EEG changes were noted during these events.  This kind of behavior change is unusual in a seizure disorder, however, this long-term EEG tracing does support a disturbance of cerebral dysfunction in the right hemisphere.  Correlation with combination of neuroimaging or SPECT scan may be helpful.



