History:	54 year old female with persistent change in mental status and possible
autoantibody encephalitis.
Medications:	levetiracetam, lacosamide
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is a fragmentary posterior dominant rhythm present 7-8Hz.  Background activity was
characterized by diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior
to posterior gradient of frequencies.  Stage I and II sleep is identified. The appearance of right
temporal PLEDs during sleep recurs.
There is intermittent right temporal focal slowing.  Right temporal PLEDs are seen during sleep.
No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The orofacial dyskinesias persist
during wakefulness.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right frontotemporal
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), intermittent, right frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an 24 hour video ABNORMAL EEG because of diffuse background slowing, focal right
temporal slowing, and right PEDs.  These findings suggest a focal brain lesion with epileptiform
potential in the right temporal region.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.  These
findings were conveyed to the primary team.





