History:		20 year old man with anoxic brain injury (as a result of several gun shot wounds), now with continuous facial twitching.
Medications:  Ativan, rocuronium x2, Versed, Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type: Technique:
Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG and EMG electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for -18 hours from 4/26/2015 till 4127/2015.  Nursing­ initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient. Early in the recording the background consists of high amplitude generalized spikes with aftergoing slow waves that occur occur with a regular repetition rate of -1Hz. Each of these discharges is associated with brief facial twitch. After administration of rocuronium, these discharges persist at the same rate but lower amplitude. As the recording progresses, frequency of these discharges increases up to 3 Hz and their amplitude lessens. Facial twitching is replaced by frequent eye blinking as the recording progresses. No normal sleep architecture was present.
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, myoclonic No reactivity
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL -18-hour continuous video EEG due to presence of myoclonic status epilepticus that progressively worsens as the recording progresses, despite initiation of Depakote and versed drip. This finding indicates marked diffuse cerebral dysfunction and cortical excitability and, in the setting of anoxic brain injury, indicates poor chance of neurological recovery/ survival. These findings were conveyed to the primary team.
.




