History:	76 YR MALE WITH CC OF SEIZURES. LAST SZ 9/14 X2.  ONE WITH FALL/
SUTURES HEAD.   PT STATES HAS MANY AURAS NOT MANY SZS. (AURA
Medications:	PRIMIDONE
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excessive diffuse 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.  As drowsiness
progresses, symmetric vertex waves appear.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to
moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Continuous rhythmic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right anterior
temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Multiple left temporal sharp
waves are present with phase reversals at F7 and T3.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  HR was 66.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, rhythmic, continuous, left temporal, anterior
Sharp waves, frequent, left temporal, anterior, F7-T3
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent sharp waves in the left
temporal region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region,
and given the clinical history of partial seizures, are consistent with a diagnosis of localization-
related epilepsy.  In addition there is continuous focal slowing in the left anterior temporal region.
This finding is indicative of severe focal cerebral dysfunction in this region, likely structural in
origin. Lastly the  intermittent focal slowing in the right anterior temporal  region is indicative of
focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.  No clinical or electrographic seizures



