CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 65-year-old man with a past medical history of stroke and seizures who now presents with a change in mental status and subsequently found to have focal status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Zonisamide, phenobarbital, and Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Spike detector and seizure detector software were activated.  Nursing staff and medical staff notes were reviewed.  The recording was reviewed intermittently throughout the recording epoch.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  During maximal wakefulness the background consisted of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  No normal sleep architecture is captured, however, periods of quiescence characterized by diffuse spindle-like wave forms and intermittent periods of brief background discontinuity are captured.   Electrographic seizures occur on the average of approximately 1 per hour.  The last electrographic seizure occurs at approximately 8:30 p.m.  Seizure duration on the average is approximately 1 minute.  Electrographically seizure starts with rhythmic alpha frequency range activity observed over the left frontal region.  This activity rapidly spreads throughout the left parasagittal region and over the left anterior temple region.  A seizure evolves, rhythmic theta increases in amplitude and decreases in frequency with some reflection over the right hemisphere.  There is a gradual decrease in the wave form frequency until seizure gradually stops.  No official neurological testing is performed during any of these events.  Beta review does not demonstrate clear associated clinical correlation.  The last seizure captured was at approximately 8:30 p.m.  This corresponds to IV loading the patient with Dilantin shortly prior to the last seizure.
FINDINGS:
Moderate diffuse slowing.
Frequent brief periods of discontinuity, especially during sleep.
Intermittent focal electrographic seizures, with onset over the left frontal region, occurring on the average of once an hour and lasting for approximately 60 minutes.  Last such seizure occurred at approximately 8:30.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24-hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to moderate diffuse slowing that is more pronounced over the left hemisphere as well as intermittent focal seizures of left frontal onset.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal left hemispheric swelling and electrographic seizures indicate underlying focal cerebral dysfunction and is consistent with the patient's history of prior left hemispheric stroke.  The last recorded seizure was at approximately 8:30 p.m.  Discontinuation of seizures occurs soon after the patient was loaded with IV Dilantin.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology team.



