HISTORY:
24 y.o. male referred for routine EEG as a follow-up study. He has a history of 2 seizures in 2011, after MVA. He has had a history of multiple prior EEGs.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
lamotrigine (LAMICTAL) 100 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth daily. mirtazapine (REMERON) 30 mg tablet, Take 15 mg by mouth nightly. TWO TABLETS DAILY
alprazolam (XANAX) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth as needed. SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), with superimposed 18 Hz harmonic frequencies (fast alpha
variant) . The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency
and amplitude is present.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.
There is occasional sharply-contoured theta-frequency polymorphic slowing over the left posterior quadrant (T5/P3 maximum) , which is accentuated by hyperventilation.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and accentuates focal slowing in the
left posterior quadrant region (see above) .
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake-and-drowsy routine EEG due to:
1. Occasional sharply contoured theta-frequency polymorphic slowing over the left posterior quadrant (T5/P3 maximum)
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings are etiologically-nonspecific indicators of left posterior quadrant dysfunction. When compared to his prior
routine EEGs performed 1/17/2012 and 6/19/2012, the focal slowing is less pronounced in the current study.





