REASON FOR STUDY:  Left CEA.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 57-year-old woman with a history of left CVA or stroke, hypertension, CAD, hepatitis C and left carotid occlusion or stenosis, who is here for left carotid endarterectomy.
MEDICATIONS:
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was recorded during a left carotid endarterectomy, which was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with addition of EKG electrodes.  The patient's EEG was performed while he received midazolam, propofol, fentanyl and vecuronium, for induction sevoflurane, phenylephrine, epinephrine, fentanyl bolus at times, nitroglycerin, gentamicin and Ancef.
CLINICAL PROBLEMS:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background of the EEG opened without normal posterior dominant rhythm seen over the right hemisphere at 9 Hz, which was not seen as clearly over the left hemisphere.  There is focal slowing seen intermittently over the focal hemisphere, maximal 10 probably intermittently.  In addition, there was some normal frontocentral beta seen in the bilateral frontal regions.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  There are fairly frequent to continuous focal slowing over the left hemisphere, and during the recording, there were some sharp waves seen over the left anterior temporal and frontal and prefrontal regions on the left.  No seizures were seen.
PROCEDURE:  The patient was clamped at 11:58 and 24 seconds a.m. and a change was noted over the left hemisphere for loss of faster frequencies and decreased amplitude at 11:58 and 59 seconds a.m.   The patient was unclamped and the EEG normalized slowly, and the patient was reclamped at 11:01 and 53 a.m. and a shunt was placed in, which was opened at 11:08 and 29 seconds a.m.  The EEG returned to baseline after the changes seen with the second clamp being similar to the previous clamp.  The patient was reclamped to take the shunt out at 11:52 and 31 seconds a.m., and again changes were noted over the left hemisphere and the clamp was taken out.  Once the shunt was removed at 12:05 and 6 seconds p.m., the EEG slowly normalized afterwards to its baseline.
IMPRESSION:
Abnormal EEG with changes over the left hemisphere with clamping that improved with shunting and returned to normal after the procedure.
Focal sharp waves were seen over the left hemisphere during the procedure.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is an eventful left carotid endarterectomy due to changes over the left hemisphere with clamping, which was informed to the surgeon and required shunting.  The changes resurfaced with shunting and after the procedure, the EEG returned to baseline.  All changes were reported to the surgeon.  In addition, there is evidence of cortical irritability over the left hemisphere which may be related to her previous stroke or maybe correlated with a history of seizures.  Clinical correlation is recommended.



