CLINICAL  HISTORY:  This  is a 33-year-old woman  with  refractory , complex partial  seizures, five per month .



MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Depakote.



INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG  is performed  in the unit using standard 10-20  system of electrode placement with  one channel  of  EKG. No events were reported in this portion of the record.



DESCRIPTION  OF THE RECORD:

RANDOM WAKEFULNESS  IN SLEEP  October  21-22,2002:

In wakefulness, the  background  EEG is well organized with symmetric, reactive 10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm  and a small amount  of low  voltage,  frontocentral  be ta activity.  Drowsiness is characterized by attenuation of  the alpha  rhythm.  Vertex  waves, K complexes, and  spindles are seen in stage II sleep.



RANDOM  WAKEFULNESS   IN  SLEEP   October  22-23,  2002:  No  clinical  events  were reported  in this section  of the record.



DESCRIPTION  OF THE  RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG continues to show symmetric, reactive  10Hz  posterior dominant rhythm.    As the patient  becomes drowsy, there is attenuation of the alpha rhythm. On rare occasions in stage II sleep, vertex  waves  are symmetric, but sleep spindles seem  to have a more generous  field of spread  and higher amplitude on the right compared   to  the  left.   Following this observation,  there  are  initially  subtle,  low  amplitude left anterior temporal  sharp waves.   As the sleep recording continues, there are  higher  amplitude, left anterior  temporal   sharp   waves   with phase   reversal   at  F7/T1.   These  occasionally occur   in couplets.



No seizures were recorded.



Long-Term Monitoring, 10123-24/02



CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 33-year-old woman with refractory, complex partial seizures, five per month.



MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Depakote.









INTRODUCTION: Digital video  EEG monitoring is performed in the unit using standard  10-20 system  of  electrode  placement  with  one  channel  of  EKG. The  patient experienced no  clinical seizures or seizure-like behaviors. She had difficulty sleeping  during  the night.



DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG  is  well  organized with symmetric, reactive 9 Hz posterior dominant  rhythm .  In wakefulness, there  is a single  left anterior temporal  sharp  wave  identified.   In sleep, there are rare sharp  waves  identified primarily in stage  II sleep.   In contrast to other  sections of the record,  there is significantly less  in the way of  epileptiform activity.   There  are  two  low  amplitude,  discreet   right  anterior temporal  sharp waves  as well, noted  in stage II sleep, Stage  II sleep is  identified primarily  in the early  morning hours.



HR:  84 BPM.



Long-Term Monitoring, 10124-25/02



MEDICATIONS: VPA, PHT



RANDOM WAKEFULNESS IN  SLEEP: [n stage II sleep, there  are  occasional, left  anterior temporal  sharp and slow wave and spike  and slow  wave complexes. These are seen  on occasion in wakefulness and stage II sleep, but are more common as the patient  becomes drowsy.



Seizure time  (approximately  11 :00 PM).  The patient  is awake  and is on the phone.   The seizure starts at 0:1 8:l l.  While there  is a significant amount  of movement in the background, the onset of the seizure is characterized by arrhythmic  theta  with a generous  field  of spread  from  the left temporal  region  including  the central  temporal region.  She is on the phone  and moving about and w thin  the  first  20  seconds there  is  a  significant amount  of  muscle   and  movement artifact. Despite  the movement artifact, there  is rhythmic theta  evolving into a characteristic tonic-clonic pattern at approximately 60 seconds after  the start of the seizure. The entire  seizure duration  is  1 minute  and  40  seconds.  In the  time  sample  that follows, the re is significant postictal slowing. Behaviorally, the patient  is on the phone. She  stops moving  her right  side  and  has automatism 's with  the left.   Approximately 40 seconds into  the seizure, she  is rubbing her right  arm  with  the left side.   Head  turning  is seen  5 1 seconds into the seizure  and 71 seconds into  the seizure, focal, facial, tonic-clonic activity  is identified.  Towards the close of this epoch, the focal slowing from the left with a frequent  left temporal sharp  wave begins  to resolve.



In the same  time period, there is a seizure  out of sleep and tills occurs on the morning  of  I 0/25/02 at 6:58 AM. The patient is asleep. She had some awareness a day later that she had a seizure. She seems  to  be  awake  or  somewhat drowsy. Like  the  other  seizure,  this  seizure is  marked  by  a significant amount of movement artifact.



The initial  electrographic features are apparent at 6:57:52 with an arousal out of sleep. Her head turn s to the  left.    She  seems to alert  from  a drowsy  state  and  looks to  the  left.   Again,  in her seizure, her right arm  isn't moving.   Her head is turned more  to the left and she  leans backwards.



The seizure detector identified this as a seizure, but the alarm  did not activate.  Although she is in the dark, she is moving her left arm but not her right.  It is not possible to see her face during this



seizure, but by 6:58:32,  she has the motor pattern, in the EEG at least, to suggest  that there was again focal facial twitching as seen in the first seizure.  The seizure is over at 6:59:13.   Despite the fact  that  this seizure  emanates  from a drowsy state,  there  is still  a significant  amount  of movement  and  muscle. 	By 6:57:49,  there  is  rhythmic  theta,  particularly  from  the  temporal region, but even  with  the filter, there is a lot of artifact.    This activity  is approximately  7 Hz, rhythmic, with a diffuse field of spread in the left temporal and central temporal regions.  There is a  frequency of allusion identified  by 6:58:09.  The activity shows clear paroxysmal  evolution  up until the facial twitching began at 6:58:32  with higher amplitude,  more rhythmic  activity and by

6:58:28, there is more clear involvement  of the central  lateral hemisphere.  With  the focal facial movement,  the EEG  becomes  more significantly  obscured,  although,  if to some  extent  that is filtered out, the right hemisphere does not appear to be as involved. In the recording  that follows, there is postictal slowing  identified, although  the pattern is improving  by 7:06  when there seems to have been an accidental  patient push button.



Long-Term Monitoring, 10125-26102



MEDICATIONS: LEV, VPA.



DESCRIPTION OF RECORD: No seizures were reported in this section of the record.



RANDOM WAKEFULNESS IN SLEEP: In wakefulness,  the background  EEG is well organized. There  are some  sections  of  the record  with high amplitude,  left  mid-temporal   spike and slow wave and sharp and slow  wave complexes  identified in wakefulness.   There  is phase reverse at T3.  There  is some spread  to T5, but with reformatting  of the data,  the activity  is clearly seen initially  at  T3  with spread  to T5.    In contrast  to other  portions  of  the  record,  these  are seen primarily in wakefulness.

Long-Term Monitoring, 10/26-27102



MEDICATIONS: LEV, VPA



DESCRIPTION OF RECORD: No seizures were reported in this section of the record.



RANDOM WAKEFULNESS IN SLEEP: In wakefulness,  there is rhythmic, focal slowing seen intermittently in the left anterior  temporal  region with a mixture of rhythmic  theta and delta. In contrast to other portions of the record, spike and slow wave and sharp and slow wave complexes were relatively  rare.



IMPRESSION: Abnormal long-term video EEG monitoring due to:

1.      Two seizures. Despite muscle and motion artifact, these localize to the left anterior temporal region.

2.	Initially  rare but later more clearly delineated  left mid or anterior  sharp  and slow  wave and spike and slow wave complexes.

3.          Intermittent left anterior temporal focal slowing in sleep.



CLINICAL CORRELATION: Diagnostic of a partial mechanism for epilepsy.












