History:	64 Y/O MALE PMHX OF ASTHMA, ARTHRITIS. PT PRESENTS TO HOSPITAL
AFTER HAVING 2 SZ AT HOME FOLLOWED BY 4 MORE IN ED. ATIVAN X5,
PROPOFOL DRIP,
Medications:	PROPOFOL DRIP 9.7 ML/HR, ATIVAN X5
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 18 hours from 10/02/2014 to 10/03/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies. There is a superimposed diffuse beta.  There are also intermittent 1 second periods of
diffuse attenuation.  The background improves at the end of the of the record.  There are rare small
amplitude bifrontal predominant theta discharges.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral mid temporal regions.  At time
there are some sharply countoured discharges on the left.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 90
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, bilateral temporal, anterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse, Improving at the end of the record.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.  The sharply countoured discharges are suspicious for epileptogenic discharges.



