CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 64-year-old transferred from an outside hospital after recent status epilepticus, left occipital stroke and hemorrhage with prior intraventricular shunt (?)
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Norvasc, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This is a technically acceptable EEG with impedances below 5 kilo ohms with the exception of the T1-T2 electrodes.  The patient was awake, alert, and conversant during the EEG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were deferred.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG in wakefulness includes at times a 10 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  The activity from the right hemisphere is relatively well organized.
High amplitude epileptiform activity is identified primarily from the left hemisphere.  The epileptiform activity is complex in nature, sometimes anterior or frontotemporally maximum.  At other times it starts with a multiple phasic component on the left but ends up transitioning to the right.  This very high amplitude activity is often picked up in the right hemisphere and there are some discharges that have a bihemispheric spread particularly those from the frontal regions.
Most of the epileptiform activity is left frontal or complex in nature, but there is also some activity in the left parietal and occipital nature or a polyphasic component there.  Brief drowsiness is characterized by a decrease in the eye movements and an increase in beta.  The epileptiform activity today is not particularly different wakefulness or sleep.
Heart rate 96 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is remarkable for
Complex epileptiform activity from the left hemisphere which today demonstrates more than 1 maximum but is a little bit more remarkable in the left frontotemporal region.
High amplitude epileptiform activity left maximum but with bilateral representation.
Left parieto-occipital epileptiform activity.
Intermittent or at times more sustained left hemispheric focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG demonstrates a prominent epileptiform activity but no seizures.  These findings may be correlated with imaging, but it supports a focal mechanism for epilepsy.



