LENGTH OF THE RECORDING: 1 hour 12 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY: The patient is a 47-year-old man who presents with a change in mental status, renal failure, new onset seizure and concern for bacterial meningitis. The patient also has a history of alcohol abuse, liver disease, and stroke.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, metoprolol, Protonix and others.
INTRODUCTION: The recording was performed according to the standard 10/20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed. EEG was performed at the patient's bedside.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient. The background consists of a mixture of low amplitude theta and delta activity. No normal sleep architecture is observed, however, periods of quiescence are noted. There are continuous broadly based waveforms that have triphasic morphology and AP lag. It is unclear if these waveforms represent true triphasic waveforms or broadly based sharp waves. Additionally, occasional moderate to high amplitude generalized sharp waves with phase reversal over C3 or C4 electrodes are captured. There are no electrographic seizures observed. A single EKG lead demonstrates sinus tachycardia with occasional premature QRS complexes.
FINDINGS:
1. Moderate diffuse slowing.
2. Continuous waveforms of triphasic morphology that either represent true triphasic waveforms or broadly based sharp waves.
3. Occasional generalized sharp waves with phase reversal over C3 and C4 electrodes.
4. No electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal 1 to 6 hours electroencephalogram due to moderate diffuse slowing, frequent waveforms of triphasic morphology and occasional broadly based epileptiform discharges that are most pronounced centrally. These findings indicate etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction that could be toxic-metabolic in etiology. Additionally, there is increased epileptogenic potential most pronounced over the bicentral regions. No electrographic seizures are captured.



