History:	33 year old man who was found down.  He subsequently developed status
epilepticus that resolved with medications.  He remains altered.  EEG performed on
12/31/2013 demonstrated recurrent status epilepticus.
Medications:	depakote, phenobarbital, ativan 2 mg
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 6 AM on 01/01/2014 until 6 am on
1/2/2014.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence
of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies. There is diffuse amplitude attenuation
of the background.  Occasional eye blink artifact is noted.  No normal sleep architecture was
There are frequent 2 Hz bifrontal sharp waves consistent with periodic epileptiform discharges
(PEDs).  The record showed a few electrographic seizures characterized by with PED's that become
rhythmic and evolve from theta to delta wave discharges in bilateral frontal regions lasting up to 2
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was bpm.
Summary of Findings:
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), intermittent frontal
Attenuation
Seizure, few frontal, bifrontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hours EEG because of electrographic seizures arising from the bifrontal
region which are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region. In addition there is diffuse
background slowing and absent alpha rhythm, amplitude attenuation, and intermittent bifrontal
sharp waves.  Diffuse slowing and attenuation is an etiologically nonspecific indicator of moderate
to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  .
present. minutes.

