History:	42 year old woman with a history of seizures, now presents in status epilepticus.
Medications:	KEPPRA, VIMPAT, DEPAKOTE, ATIVAN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~13 hours from 08/31/2015 till 09/01/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  During wakefulness, the background consists of polymorphic
diffuse theta and delta activity activity.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Sleep spindles and
K-complexes are captured.  Sleep spindles are better formed over the right hemisphere.  Patient
sleeps during majority of the recording.
Continuous moderate amplitude 0.75-0.8 Hz left temporal PLEDs-plus are captured.  Maximal
scalp negativity occurs over the T3 lead and sharp waves have a broad field.  A single
electrographic seizure is captured at 3:44 am. There is no clinical correlate.  Seizure duration is ~
100 seconds.  Seizure start with low amplitude fast activity over the T3 lead.  1 Hz PLEDs-plus are
replaced by rhythmic ~1.5 Hz left hemispheric delta activity.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Seizure, one, left temporal, mid
PLEDs-plus, left, 0.75-0.8 Hz
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous ~13-hour EEG due to (1) moderate -to-severe diffuse slowing; (2)
continuous 0.75- 0.8 Hz left temporal periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs-plus) and
(3) one left midtemporal focal electrographic seizure.  There is a focal left hemispheric structural
cerebral abnormality, especially over the left temporal region, that contains an epileptogenic focus.
Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.






