CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 53-year-old woman with a 17 year history of epilepsy, 3-4 tonic clonic seizures per year, last in January 2013, and hypertension.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, Tegretol, and phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.  This is an awake and drowsy record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is slow and disorganized with an alpha rhythm of about 6-7 Hz in a pattern more of diffuse theta.  This background is intermittently disrupted by bursts of higher amplitude slowing, which are bilateral, but are more prominent on the left compared to the right.  In a disorganized pattern there is an underlying sharp wave which may be in the left mid to anterior temporal region.  In addition, as the patient transitions into stage 1 sleep with vertex waves, some of these waves forms are also noted.  In stage 1 sleep there appears to be a left posterior temporal sharp wave noted.
In the transition between wakefulness and sleep, there is intermittent disruption of the alpha rhythm on either side.
Hyperventilation produced an increase in amplitude of the background with hypersynchronous rhythmic slowing.  In addition, it does seem to elicit some asynchronous slowing and there is a question of a frontal spike and slow wave complex, left greater than right, noted in hyperventilation.
Photic stimulation did not activate the record.
Heart rate:  60 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Generalized background slowing.
Disorganization.
Bursts of paroxysmal higher amplitude slowing, which seemed to be maximum on the left and appear to have a poorly defined underlying left mid anterior temporal sharp wave.
Rare right posterior temporal sharp waves noted in sleep.
Rare left and frontal spike and slow wave complexes in hyperventilation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a bihemispheric process, but one which may involve the left hemisphere more significantly than the right.  The epileptiform activity has a preponderance in the left hemisphere.  No seizures were recorded.  If additional information is needed, an inpatient EEG monitoring session may be necessary.



