History:	61 year old man undergoing aortic root/ hemiarch replacement and aortic valve
replacement
Medications:	Klonopin; versed, fentanyl, sevoflurane gas, rocuronium,
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Description:
Patient is awake at the beginning of the procedure.  The opening background consists of ~10 Hz
PDR, expected AP gradient, bursts of diffuse theta and delta and diffuse excess beta activity.
There is no asymmetry.  At ~ 7:47:32 AM, there is rapid change in the background, disappearance
of PDR and AP gradient and appearance of diffuse delta activity.  This corresponds to
administration of anesthesia and patient intubation.  The background gradually becomes a mixture
of polymorphic alpha, theta activity with underriding delta activity and periods of brief
discontinuity. Additionally, subtle polymorphic delta activity is noted over the left fronto-central/
centroparietal  region.  Cardiopulmonary bypass is initiated at ~ 9:32 AM.  Following it, there is a
diffuse change in the background with increase in diffuse polymorphic delta activity and decrease
in underriding fast activity.  At ~10:20 AM there is increase in the amount of diffuse monomorphic
fast activity in the alpha-frequency range and decrease in delta activity. There is also gradual mild
voltage attenuation.  This corresponds to increase in isoflurane concentration.  The background
changes throughout the case depending on isoflurane concentrations from somewhat monomorphic
theta and alpha activity to a mixture of frequencies.  From ~ 11:45 AM till ~ 12:40 PM there is
further attenuation of the background.  Cause of such a change is not clear (no changes in
medications or vital signs reported).  The Attending surgeon was made aware of the change.  There
is gradual improvement in the background with a mixture of frequencies at medium amplitudes
observed by the end of the recording. Subtle polymorphic delta activity persists over the left fronto-
central/ centroparietal region.  Cardiopulmonary bypass is stopped at ~ 12:28 PM.
Cardiac arrhythmia and increase in heart rate to  ~100-120 bpm are noted on a single EKG lead at
~ 9:47 AM.  At ~ 9:57 AM no activity is observed on a single EKG lead.  QRS complexes re-appears
at ~ 12:45 PM.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left, fronto-central/ centroparietal; not observed during
Interpretation:
This was an unremarkable 5 hour and 21 minute intraoperative EEG monitoring with ~ 4 hours of
direct remote monitoring and ~15 minutes of inside OR monitoring.  The Attending Surgeon was
notified of any major EEG changes throughout the case. Patient was on the cardiopulmonary
bypass from ~ 9:32 AM till ~ 12:28 PM.  Intermittent focal slowing in the left frontocentral/
centroparietal region is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.





