AGE: 63 y.o.
SEX : female
DATE OF STUDY: 12/29/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient
EEG TYPE : 20-40 min, awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1868
HISTORY :
63 y.o. female presents following a first time seizure that occurred 12/23/15 - she reported LOC while driving without recall of event , +postictal confusion, +tongue biting ; she is now referred for routine EEG for characterization of seizures.
MEDICATIONS : no AEDs
SEDATION : None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation .
EEG BACKGROUND :
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with mild excess of sharply contoured theta frequencies, and a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) . The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present .
During drowsiness, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing with bursts of sharply contoured theta are seen.
Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.
Mild generalized slowing is present.
Frequent sharply contoured left temporal polymorphic slowing is present, activated by drowsiness.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
Occasional left fronto-temporal sharp-and-wave complexes (F7, Tl > T3 max) are seen in drowsiness
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric background slowing.
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.
EVENTS :
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:
Mild generalized slowing
Frequent sharply contoured left temporal polymorphic slowing
Occasional left fronto-temporal sharp-and-wave complexes (F7, Tl > T3 max)·
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of left fronto-temporal epileptogenic discharges superimposed on left temporal dysfunction and mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



