History:	57 year old man status post PEA code.  On the exam, patient is comatose, frequent
eye blinks are noted.
Medications:	Propofol
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~13 hours from 1/15/2015 till 1/16/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.  The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  In the first half of the recording, the background consists of a
mixture of polymorphic moderate-to-high amplitude theta and delta activity that lack clear
reactivity.  In the second half of the recording, there is increase in the amount of underriding fast
activity and diffuse decrease in amplitudes.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
No electrographic seizures are captured.
A single EKG lead demonstrates frequent premature QRS complexes.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL ~13 hours continuous video EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse slowing.
This finding is indicative of moderate to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  Change in the background appearance that occurs in the second half of the recording
(decrease in amplitudes and appearance of fast activity) could be related to increase in propofol
dose.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.






