History:	UNKNOWN MALE S/P LEFT SDH EVAC. EEG FOR MS FLUCTUATION.    PT WITH
SKULL DEFECT LEFT. EDEMA
Medications:	KEPPRA, MORPHINE
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 07/06/2014 to 07/07/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left frontal region with an associated
increased amplitude consistent with a breach.  Frequent focal sharp waves are present with phase
reversal and amplitude maximum at F3.  The F3 sharp wave increase in frequency and amplitude
for up to 2 minutes consistent with focal electrographic seizures. At first occurring frequently and
then improving to only four in the last 14 hours.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 66
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, left frontal, electrographic
Sharp waves, frequent, left frontal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of multiple electrographic left frontal seizures that improved
over time. In addition there is evidence of focal dysfunction and irritability over the left frontal
region consistent with the known SDH. Lastly, there is diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

