CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 54-year-old male, previously admitted to the Burn Unit in 2009 after burn injury.  History encephalomalacia/encephalopathy.  Past history of traumatic brain injury.  Now, active issue is the patient wanders away from home at night in search of candy.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, carbamazepine, lisinopril, aspirin, and others
INTRODUCTION:  A 34-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation was deferred.  Photic stimulation was completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This record is remarkable for an intrahemispheric asymmetry.  In maximal wakefulness, the background EEG is acceptably organized with a 10 Hz alpha rhythm noted on the left and a MU activity noted on the left although testing was not performed to confirm this.  The record demonstrates continuous focal slowing noted in wakefulness and sleep.  In wakefulness, the right hemisphere is comprised primarily of theta frequency activity.  The posterior dominant rhythm is absent.  The drowsy pattern is remarkable for an increase in theta in both hemispheres with slowing of the alpha on the left.  In addition, more rhythmic frontal slowing is noted in some of the more prolonged drowsy recording for this individual.
Photic stimulation elicited a driving response on the left.  A single questionable right frontal sharp wave was noted during photic stimulation with another subtle F8 sharp wave noted in drowsiness.
Heart rate: 60 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1  Continuous focal slowing noted from the right hemisphere.
2. A breach rhythm noted on the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In comparison to previous study from 2009, the slowing in the left hemisphere has improved.  This EEG supports a significant process involving the right hemisphere,
involving gray and white matter.  In the context of a breach rhythm, no definitive sharp waves were identified.  This was a slightly extended study to 36 minutes in attempt to capture sleep.



