CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 46-year-old woman with complex partial epilepsy, previously evaluated in 2008, now seen in the emergency room after recurrent seizures characterized by palpitations, diaphoresis, and staring occurring 1-3 times a week, lasting 3 minutes.  These are associated with fear.  Also, a feeling as if she is on a boat.  Patient was feeling almost back to herself.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, antidepressants, other medications (suboptimal adherent).
INTRODUCTION:  Extended, digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  The patient was somewhat symptomatic during the EEG, reporting disequilibrium.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins, the EEG demonstrates an awake pattern with a symmetric reactive alpha rhythm.  This is disrupted by intermittent bursts of rhythmic right temporal delta with admixed sharp waves.  The bursts of sharp waves and delta are on the order of 5-10-15 seconds in duration.  No alteration in the patient's motor or sensory symptoms were seen in association with these discharges.  The patient's responses are slowed, but the tech who spends 40 minutes with the patient, finds that the patient's responsiveness is not so significantly different than the sections of the record without the bursts.  As the recording concludes, the epileptiform activity is decreasing, but there remains some rhythmic right temporal slowing.  The sharp waves are significantly more discreet.
Photic stimulation was performed at the end of the record.  A driving response was identified.  In the final minutes of the recording, another more brief burst of right temporal sharp waves was noted.
Heart rate 84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to:
Well-defined high amplitude right temporal sharp waves.
Bursts of rhythmic temporal theta.
Bursts of rhythmic slowing and sharp waves lasting between 5 and 13 seconds without significant change in the patient's clinical status.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings suggest a highly irritative focus.  This may be a postictal study, but ongoing vigilance is essential (the patient was admitted to the hospital based on this result).



