History:	51 year old man who presents with multiple generalized tonic-clonic convulsions.
Glucose was close to 800 at the time of presentation.
Medications:	Ativan 2 mg.  Propofol drip
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~10 hours on 05/02/2014.   Nursing-initiated event
buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice
daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically
detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  With maximal stimulation the background consists of diffuse
polymorphic slow delta activity with underriding low amplitude fast activity.  During periods of
quiescence, the background consists of bursts of polymorphic theta and delta admixed with frequent
periods of discontinuity.  As the recording progresses, there is emergence of faster frequencies
diffusely.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right frontal region.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL ~10 hour continuous video EEG due to severe diffuse slowing, periods of
discontinuity and continuous severe right frontal slowing. Diffuse slowing is indicative of severe
diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but in this patient is at least partially
related to the medication effect.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of focal cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin and could represent
post-ictal phenomenon.  As the recording progresses, the degree of diffuse slowing lessens.








