History:	54 year old woman who presents status post cardiac arrest.
Medications:	Versed, keppra, Dilantin, Versed and Phenobarbital
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 4/21/2015 till 4/22/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is is no PDR or AP gradient.  The background consists of attenuated background, frequent
periods of discontinuity and bursts containing low amplitude fast activity.  No normal sleep
No electrographic seizures are captured.  Occasional left P3/O1 sharp waves are seen in the first
half of the recording.  Additional bisynchronous parietooccipital Sharp waves are captured.  Rarely,
they occur in 3-5 second non-evolving runs.
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
Discontinuous background, frequent
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, severe
Sharp waves, L parietooccipital and bisynchronous parietooccipital
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 24-hour EEG due to severe diffuse background slowing
and occasional parietooccipital epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse slowing indicates diffuse cerebral
dysfunction that in this case at least partially related to the medication effect.  Degree of diffuse
slowing is overall higher when compared to the prior 24-hour recording epoch - this corresponds
with higher  doses of versed used and addition of phenobarbital.  There is focal epileptogenic focus
over the bilateral parietocentral regions (primarily left).  These findings were conveyed to the
architecture is present.primary team




