CLINICAL HISTORY:   44 year old man with recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, phenobarbital, and Topamax.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizure.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike detection software as well as seizure detection software and nurses' alarm noted events were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm of 9 to 10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is a normal amount of frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures were not performed.  The patient is recorded in wakefulness and stage I, stage II, and deeper stages of sleep.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves at F7/T3 seen occasionally in wakefulness and sleep.
Focal slow waves seen at F7/T3 at 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts.
SEIZURES:  Seizure #1, 07/18/2012 at 10:30 a.m., complex partial seizure.  In the video, the patient suddenly places down his cell phone.  Suddenly his arms raise and he lays back.  After this, the right arm suddenly becomes dystonic and stiff.  He starts having automatic movements with the left arm, playing around with the cell phone and the sheet, and his face remains in a staring fashion.  At times he moves his mouth.  He continues this behavior during the entirety of the seizure.
EEG:  The EEG seizure started at 10:33 a.m. and ended at 10:34 a.m. The EEG correlate to the seizure started at 7 seconds after the clinical onset.  There is rhythmic theta discharge seen maximally at the beginning at T1/F7, which evolves in frequency and increases in amplitude.  It remains mainly over the T1/F7 electrodes but it spread throughout the whole left hemisphere.  After the end of the seizure, there appears to be an asymmetry of the faster frequencies with a lack of them over the left hemisphere.  End of seizure #1.
Seizure #2, complex partial seizure, occurred on 07/19/2012, starting at 2:48:57, ending at 2:49:52.  Video behavior:  While in bed the patient starts blinking and moving his mouth.  Suddenly his right arm becomes dystonic and his right eye shuts down and appears to twitch slightly while he continues to move his mouth.  Seconds later, he starts having rhythmic automatisms of the left hand and playing with the sheet.  He continues this behavior until the end of the seizure.
EEG:  About 10 seconds after clinical onset, the EEG reveals well-formed rhythmic 7 Hz theta discharge, maximal over the T1/F7 electrode, which is slightly obscured by muscle artifact which appears to continue to evolve in frequency and increase in amplitude over the left hemisphere.  The seizure remains on the left hemisphere.  It does not cross to the right.  After the end of the seizure, there appear to be a lot of faster frequencies over that left hemisphere and not noticed over the right.  The seizure lasts for 55 seconds.  End of seizure #2.
Seizure #3, electrographic seizures.  During the record, he had about 4 distinct electrographic seizures which were comprised of rhythmic runs of F7/T3 theta discharge that appeared to increase slightly in amplitude and then suddenly stop.  These 4 events lasted as long as 4 minutes.  During them, in the video there is no clear clinical correlate.  End of seizure.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1.  Left anterior temporal sharp waves and slowing.
2.  Complex partial seizures and multiple electrographic seizures.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This long-term EEG is diagnostic of localization related epilepsy with seizures arising from the left anterior temporal region.



