CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 61-year-old male with epilepsy.  Has complex neurosurgical history including traumatic brain injury, subarachnoid hemorrhage, subdural hematoma, aphagia, skull defect, and past left-sided edema.  Past history of recurrent seizures in July 2014, recently admitted to the hospital in February 2015.  No recent reported seizures, but previous status epilepticus and pleds from the left.
MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin, atorvastatin, Keppra, metoprolol, phenobarbital, and Trileptal.
INTRODUCTION:  A 20-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  This is a technically acceptable EEG with acceptable impedances, although there is a prominent craniotomy defect.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background from the right hemisphere includes a low voltage, continuous, primarily beta frequency pattern.  The left hemisphere demonstrates a prominent breach rhythm.  There are bursts of rhythmic 3 to 4 Hz activity of 1 to 3 seconds duration.  Some of these are associated with a sharp waves.  The bursts of rhythmic slowing with left mid temporal sharp waves are more prominent as the patient became drowsy.
Heart rate: 54 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
A marked interhemispheric asymmetry.
A low voltage slow pattern from the right with primarily beta frequency activity.
A pattern from the left with higher amplitude delta, a prominent reach, and a left mid temporal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is one of many EEGs for this adult, who has been evaluated for status epilepticus and seizures.  The epileptiform activity today is primarily left mid temporal, which in some ways is similar to the continuous EEG monitoring.  A contrast to February 2015 EEG monitor, which identified epileptiform activity from the left hemisphere, but that epileptiform activity was much more prominent in the central parietal region.
This EEG continues to support a focal mechanism for this patient's seizures.  The epileptiform activity is in the region of the patient's head trauma.  The bilateral background slowing supports a severe disturbance of cerebral function.





