CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 61-year-old female with episodes of staring spells for 2 years, now increasing in frequency.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Xanax, Vimpat, Plavix, Zocor, Boniva.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike detection software as well as seizure detection software, as well as patient's events and nurses notes were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record begins with a normal posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is a normal amount of frontocentral beta and no sleep architecture is seen; however, about 2 hours into the recording a rhythmic right frontal theta discharge (5 to 6.5 Hz) appears, maximal at the right hemisphere in the right frontal region at F4, which appears to start and stop intermittently, at times lasting for 20 to 30 seconds.  About 2 hours later it becomes more continuous and appears to increase in amplitude and frequency as high as 9.5 Hz in the alpha range, and appears to spread to the left hemisphere, also in the frontal region.  This discharge lasts for hours, but the patient does not complain of any symptoms.  Later on, the patient appears to go to sleep and some sleep architecture can be seen.  In the early morning, this rhythmic theta discharge, which again is maximal at F4, appears to come back and remains present for hours, at times increasing in frequency from 5.5 Hz to 9.5 Hz, then coming back down; however, at times appearing much more diffuse.  The patient appears to wake up at times in the middle of this pattern and appears to behave normally.  This pattern continues while awake for hours and does not appear to stop suddenly, but rather bursts of normal EEG appear in between the theta until it appears to subside to a normal EEG. It at 9:00 am the patient complains of feeling numbness in both sides, confusion, as well as dizziness for about 10 seconds while having this pattern.  She also feels like she needs to go to the bathroom.
During the video EEG, it is not clear if the patient is always behaving normally, but again at times when she complains of the pattern she appears to be confused for a moment, but otherwise when tested the patient can answer name and date as well as is oriented to time.  She can follow simple commands, but more complex commands like math and/or more than 3 tasks in a row cannot be performed.
IMPRESSION:  Impression and conclusion will be left for the end of the dictation.  This is day #1 of long-term recording.



