History:	65 year old female with TBI and history of seizures.
Medications:	Midazolam, phenytoin, levetiracetam
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.The delta at times has a triphasic morphology.  Excessive bilateral beta activity is
observed.  Background consists almost entirely of low voltage irregular 4-7Hz activity.  No normal
No focal slowing is present.  The prior seizures seen have stopped.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.  There are occasional left frontal sharp waves seen.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was minimal reactivity to
auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, occasional, left frontotemporal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Beta, excessive, bilateral frontal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour EEG because of diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  The prior seizures seen have stopped. Excessive beta activity may reflect a
medication side effect such as benzodiazepines.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.
These findings were conveyed to the primary team.
sleep architecture was present.





