CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 38-year-old male with traumatic brain injury, admitted several days ago with seizures and then multiple recurrent seizures on the 20th and 21st requiring continuous video EEG monitoring.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, Depakote, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside in the monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  The background EEG demonstrates a dynamic pattern and consistently, there is an asymmetry between the 2 hemispheres.  Initially, the right hemisphere demonstrates a lower voltage fast pattern, somewhat slow and disorganized.  By the morning of the 22nd, an alpha rhythm is emerging when the patient is awake.  The left hemisphere demonstrates continuous rhythmic delta sometimes with a phase reversal sometimes with some rhythmic theta mixed in.  This does improve over the course of the record.
Epileptiform Detections:  The primary epileptiform detections noted in this record are left hemispheric sharp waves, which expand the patient's craniotomy defect and the breach rhythm.  The sharp wave has a left frontal maximum, but has positivity at T3.  Utilizing an average reference, it is negative at T1-T3 and in fact the negativity is higher amplitude than the small positivity seen at F7 and SP1.
Seizure  11:17 a.m.  The patient is resting comfortably in bed.  He has his left hand on his left face and is leaning to the left.  Approximate seizure duration 2 minutes and 42 seconds.  The precise onset of the seizure is somewhat unclear. Behaviorally, the patient is lying on the left and at 11:17:22, he starts to stare.  He looks to the right.  The right arm is under the covers.  It appears that the right arm stiffens at 11:17:41, while the left hand is clenched.  He moans and the nurse enters and examines the patient.  She asked the patient what is wrong.  He is looking to the right, left hand is clenched and although he is vocalizing, he seems to be somewhat responsive to her.  The primary motor features are stiffening, particularly on the right and head turning to the right.  There is trembling noted at 11:18:42 with repetitive almost clonic activity.  At 11:18:56, he almost seems like he can use his left hand.  He almost seems to gesture towards the nurse.  By 11:19, the patient is breathing rapidly and as the seizure ends at 11:19:43, he vocalizes and looks at the midline.  The nurse asks him a question and he is not answering correctly, but he is responding to her.
The ictal pattern for this seizure is complex.  The precise onset is somewhat difficult to define, but it seems to begin with fast activity, which is seen at 11:17:19, gradually building up.  That fast activity is maximum at the midline and it seems to be spreading to the left hemisphere within 5 seconds and it is maximum in the left frontocentral region, but it is clearly seen throughout the left hemisphere and by 11:18:04 is bilateral.  There is a clear evolution of this fast-beta frequency activity with a transition to theta frequency activity at 11:19:23.  This activity is maximum in the left hemisphere at this time, but is bilateral.  As the seizure is ending, there is some rhythmic theta noted from the left hemisphere particularly left temporal.  The postictal features for this EEG include generalized background slowing and the ongoing left focal slowing.
Heart rate :72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This 24 hour  video EEG monitoring is remarkable:
An electrographic seizure, which may emanate from the left parasagittal region.
Left hemispheric sharp waves with an unusual field of spread and negativity in the midtemporal region.
Continuous left focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:This EEG is diagnostic of localization related epilepsy may be correlated with the patient's imaging.




