HISTORY: An elderly woman with renal failure and sepsis; on multiple antibiotics with prolonged Impaired mental status.

MEDICATIONS: Fentanyl, versed, phenytoin, meropenem, multiple and antibiotics.

INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1channel EKG. The patient was poorly responsive in the initial sections of the record.
The 1.1 sections of the record demonstrate a markedly abnormal pattern with continuous, triphasic waves. In addition to the triphasic waves, there is actually localization with some sharp waves noted in the posterior temporal region and a bifid nature. In 111e left posterior temporal region. The activity does not specifically wax or waning but there is some locality noted.

By 1:59,44 the patient has received intermittent benzodiazepines. This produces a change in the background with more of a theta frequency pattern. Ativan was also use intermittently. The patient is subsequently transferred to the ICU during tills recording session.

By 4 p.m .the EEG demonstrates a continuous pattern with irregular theta and delta. There Is some more bluntly frontally predominant triphasic waves, more so on the left than the right in more of an occasional right posterior temporal sharp waves In the overnight recording, the doses of benzodiazepines were adjusted. Subsequently, the record includes a theta background, but there are some sections of the record where this Is intermittently somewhat discontinuous. In the sections with discontinuity, there are occasional Isolated sharps from the right hemisphere.

Clinically, the patient has been placed on pharmacologic coma and demonstrated slight withdrawal of the lower extremities to tactile stimulation.

Heart rate 60-120 BPM.

IMPRESSION: This 24 hour video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
1. An Initial pattern with prominent triphasic wave activity which did not evolve but associated focal sharp waves.
2. An otherwise markedly slow background.
3. Intermittent. Pharmacologic coma with an intermittently attenuating pattern.
4. Isolated sporadic sharp waves noted from either hemisphere with various localization in either hemisphere.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This EEG demonstrates a combination of epileptiform and metabolic features. Additional EEG recording will be obtained as clinically indicated.


