INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit.  One seizure was recorded overnight.
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP: In wakefulness and sleep, the background EEG remains poorly organized. There is rhythmic, sharply contoured delta activity, some of which demonstrates a double phase reversal in the left frontocentral region.  There is independent spike and slow wave activity including the left central region, as well as the right frontal region.
SEIZURE TIME 23:52:45:  The patient is asleep and is leaning to the left.  The first clear ictal change is at 23:52:55 with a burst of generalized fast activity.  With the first burst of fast activity the patient seems to alert slightly and to shift back with her right arm.  Her left arm remains motionless.  She has initial vocalization.  The left arm is to the side and the right arm demonstrates tonic-clonic activity.  The tonic-clonic activity is much more intense in the right arm than the left initially, and the left arm is more stiff and postured.  The tonic-clonic activity partly obscures the EEG activity.  The activity begins to slow down by 23:54:05, although the motor activity becomes greater in amplitude and the frequency of the EEG is slowing.  The movements and the ictal activity again are slowing at 23:54:05 and the patient has noisy but vigorous respirations.  The EEG demonstrates a flattening, particularly from the left frontocentral region at 23:54:15.  The flattening persists at 23:54:38, at which point the EEG demonstrates a generalized attenuation and then marked background suppression with a burst of generalized higher amplitude and more difficult to localize sharp and slow wave activity at 23:54:47.  Behaviorally, as the convulsive activity ends, the patient is somnolent and the nurse’s first cue to check on the patient is her altered respirations.  The nurse monitors the patient and by 12:12 AM, the patient is returning to her baseline mental status, although she reports feeling quite exhausted.  No additional seizures are identified in the time period that follows.  By the time the patient’s mental status returns to baseline, the EEG has returned to the disorganized pattern previously described with high amplitude, spike and slow wave activity, which is multifocal but does include the left frontocentral region and the right frontal region, as well as more intense fast activity from the left frontotemporal region.
Reviewing the seizure with a hypersensitivity filter of 20 Hz, again there appears to be a burst of generalized paroxysmal fast activity diffusely with high amplitude spike and slow wave activity 1.5 seconds later.  Precise localization is challenging and the activity seems to emanate relatively symmetrically from the frontocentral regions with a generalized pattern at onset.  The primary localizing feature is the behavior with elevation of the left arm and at the very, very onset of the seizure almost a fencer-like posture, but with more characteristic tonic-clonic activity on the right.  However, it must be noted that the patient turns to the left at the onset of the seizure and then turns back to the right later on, again, raising concerns about actual localization of the seizure.




