History:	57 year old woman with a -7-8 year history of seizures, possibly related to Etoh abuse.
Patient had right craniotomy several years ago Medications:	Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake, drowsy , asleep
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude 8-9 activity that is better formed over the left. The AP gradient is weak over the left and generally absent over the right.  Diffuse excess polymorphic theta activity is captured. During drowsiness , the degree of diffuse theta activity increases. During stage II sleep, symmetrical sleep spindles appear.
Continuous polymorphic high amplitude theta<delta activity is present in the right midtemporal­ centroparietal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. Intermittent low amplitude diffuse right»>left posteriorly predominant sharp waves are captured. Often, they have an odd/ unusual field with maximal scalp negativity simultaneously captured over Fp2 and 02 leads. A single moderate amplitude sharp wave is captured over the right midtemporal region, with maximal scalp negativity over T4 lead.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic , continuous, moderate, right, midtemporal and centroparietal Sharp waves, one, right temporal, mid, T4 maximally
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable awake and asleep 32 minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing and disorganization: (2) continuous moderate right hemispheric slowing (primarily midtemporal and centroparietal regions) and (3) a single right midtemporal epileptiform discharge. Diffuse is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region. However, given the fact that EEG was normal in 2013, focal slowing could be a post-ictal phenomenon . There is increased epileptogenic potential over the right midtemporal region. Intermittent, diffuse (right>left) sharp waves with an odd/ unusual field are likely artifactual (possibly a drip artifact) - a repeat outpatient EEG is recommended. Of note, EEG from 10/2013 was reported as normal study.




