LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  22 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 62-year-old woman admitted on 05/02/2013, with COPD exacerbation requiring intubation.  The patient was noted to have twitching with stimulation of the upper extremities.  Past medical history is notable for a stroke in 2005, COPD, diabetes, and hypertension.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  Fentanyl, hydralazine, heparin, theophylline, aspirin, azithromycin, vancomycin, Lasix, Cardizem and others.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  The recording was performed at the patient's bedside.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is no posterior dominant and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Throughout the majority of the recording the background consists of over mixture of low amplitude theta and delta activity with broadly based triphasic waveforms.  With stimulation frequency of triphasic waveforms increases and the amount of theta increases as well.  No normal sleep architecture is captured, however, spindle-like waveforms are observed.  Right arm twitching is observed after stimulation at approximately 2:11:51 p.m.  There is no abnormal ictal activity correlated with that twitching.  Additionally, eye twitching is observed after tactile stimulation.  This eye twitching does not have an abnormal ictal correlate.
FINDINGS:
Moderate diffuse slowing.
Triphasic waveforms.
Episodes of right arm twitching and eye twitching after stimulation without an abnormal ictal correlate.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 22 minute EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing and triphasic waveforms.  These findings indicate etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction suggestive of a  toxic metabolic etiology.  Triphasic waveforms have occurred in various forms of encephalopathy.  Episodes of right arm twitching and eye twitching observed after stimulation do not have an abnormal ictal correlate.  However, only approximately 25% to 30% of simple partial seizures are captured on the scalp EEG.



