History:	63 year old man with a history of right frontal ICH, now presents with change in mental status and 3 witnessed focal seizures.
Medications:	Ativan Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep


Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude polymorphic theta, alpha and beta activity with under riding delta activity that is most pronounced anteriorly.  The background over the right hemisphere consists of polymorphic low amplitude theta activity posteriorly and attenuated polymorphic delta activity anteriorly with continuous semi-rhythmic and rhythmic -0.25 Hz high amplitude right anterior temporal sharp  waves with after going slow waves (quasi-PLEDs and PLEDs).  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T2/T4 electrodes.   Epileptiform discharges occasionally briefly increase in frequency to 0.75-1 Hz with clear evolution into seizures.  No normal sleep architecture is present but periods of quiescence are captured.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed. Summary  of  Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic,  mild-to-moderate Disorganization,  moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric, moderate-to-severe, especially anterior
No electrographic seizures
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, right temporal, anterior, quasi-PL

Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 31 minute portable EEG due to mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing, focal right hemispheric moderate-to-severe slowing that is especially pronounced anteriorly and continuous periodic and semi periodic epileptiform discharges that occasionally increase in frequency but do not clearly evolve into electrographic seizures.   Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing and frequent epileptiform discharges in the right anterior temporal region are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the that region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.  Patient will be placed on long-term EEG
monitoring.







