History:	52 year old woman who presents with cerebritis and recurrent seizures.
Medications:	Phenobarbital and Dilantin
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 04/21/2014 till 04/22/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
attenuated, low voltage beta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Some fragmented sleep architecture is present.
There are intermittent left fronto-temporal spikes and sharp waves seen maximal at F7.  There are
typical left frontotemporal electrographic seizures that occur with variable frequency.  Frequency of
seizures early in the recording is ~ 4 per hour.  This frequency gradually decreases in the course of
the recording to ~1-2 seizures per every 3 hours.
Some portions of the EEG contain significant EMG artifact that obscures most of the leads - data
are not interpretable during those time periods, so some seizures could have been missed.
Summary of Findings:
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour continuous video EEG because of diffuse background slowing,
intermittent left frontotemporal spikes, and intermittent left frontotemporal electrographic seizure.
These findings suggest a structural left frontotemporal brain lesion.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of
moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Some portions of the
EEG contain significant EMG artifact that obscures most of the leads - data are not interpretable
during those time periods, so some seizures could have been missed.  These findings were

conveyed to the primary team.






