History:	92 YO MALE FOUND DOWN BY FAMILY WITH LEFT ARM SHAKING AND
DIFFICULTY SPEAKING, IN ED STOPPED WITH 1 MG ATIVAN. NO HX OF SZ.
HEAD CT - RIGHT SUBCORTICAL LACUNAR INFARCT.
Medications:	PT WILL BE GETTING A LOAD OF DILANTIN, KEPPRA, ATIVAN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ___ hours from ___ to ___.   Nursing-initiated event
buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available
at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right hemisphere, with associated loss of
faster frequencies.  Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) with a polyspike
morphology are present in the T6 region at a rate of 08-1.5 Hz.  Frequent electrographic seizures
arising from T6. The EEG revealed polyspikes and PLEDs at T6 with a large temporal and parietal
field that would increase and slow down in frequency then stop lasting for 16 seconds to 2.5
minutes.  At time the patient would exhibit left facial and shoulder twitching.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 60
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, continuous, right temporal, posterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric, with associated loss of faster
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, right temporal, posterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because  of frequent subclinical electrographic seizures arising from
the right posterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this
region, and are consistent with subclinical status epilepticus.  There is also focal slowing with loss of

faster frequencies in the Right hemisphere and PLEDs in the right posterior temporal regions, this
findings are indicative of focally destructive irritable acute lesion involving gray matter in this
region.






