CLINICAL HISTORY:  63 year old female with multisystem failure, renal failure, found to develop automatisms with grimacing, extensor posturing, and eye deviation on February 21, 2012.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient received Ativan and a Depakote load and then an Ativan drip.
Her last clinical seizure was noted at 3:00 p.m. on February 22, 2012.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As said record starts the patient is intubated.  She has a fair amount of muscle and intermittent grimacing.  It is more difficult to identify the pattern of generalized paroxysmal fast activity that was noted in her baseline EEG.  The overall pattern is a slow, featureless pattern of delta and theta.
There are some sharply contoured activity in the right frontal temporal region.  Despite the muscle and artifact noted in the background, there are occasional triphasic waves observed.
Over the course of the afternoon, the patient receives Ativan, particularly after 3:00 p.m.  By this point there is some restless, but not that same clear clinical seizure pattern.  The overall background is markedly slow.  There is a periodic complex noted in the right hemisphere, including central temporal region, and triphasic waves are observed.  The patient is placed on an Ativan drip.  No additional clinical seizures are noted.  The EEG remains very slow.
As the night continues, there is more of a burst suppression pattern.  There is a featureless pattern with a burst suppression pattern and intermittent theta.  The previously described, periodic sharp waves noted primarily in the right disappear and the periods of suppression are quite prominent in the overnight recording and a little bit more subtle at the 11:00 a.m. recording.
By the morning of February 23, 2012 tactile stimulation does not activate the record.
HR:    120 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This LTM EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
An initial pattern which was technically challenging, but with a great deal of muscle and movement artifact.
The disappearance of well defined generalized paroxysmal fast activity.
Triphasic waves.
Periodic sharp waves primarily in the right hemisphere.
Ultimately a more of a diffusely slow and discontinuous pattern.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a severe disturbance of cerebral function.  The use of the benzodiazepine may play a role in the background slowing, but given the comorbidities of this patient's medical issues, a more severe systemic or cerebral process must also be considered.



