LENGTH OF RECORDING:  25 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 44-year-old man with a history of prior right traumatic frontotemporal subdural hematoma, status post evacuation, now presents with multiple breakthrough seizures approximately 1 month ago.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  Include Keppra, Depakote and Ambien.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Both hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of  well-formed and modulated 9-10.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  This AP gradient is better formed over the left hemispheric leads.  Diffuse excess beta is observed.  Additional beta is captured over the right frontal region.  Intermittent polymorphic low to moderate theta and delta activity are captured over the right frontotemporal region.  Hyperventilation is performed with good effort and results in no change in the background.  Stepped photic stimulation does not result in additional abnormalities.  During sleep vertex waves and sleep spindles are captured briefly.  Sleep architecture is higher in amplitude over the right hemisphere.  There is intermittent electrode artifact over T4 and C4 electrodes as well as T1 and T2 electrodes.  Heart rate of approximately 60 beats a minute is captured on a single EKG lead.
FINDINGS:
Focal mild to moderate right frontotemporal slowing.
Right frontal breach artifact.
No clear epileptiform discharges.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and asleep 25 minute EEG due to intermittent mild to moderate right frontotemporal slowing.  This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and in this patient is consistent with a history of prior right frontotemporal subdural hematoma.  Breach artifact is secondary to the skull defect.  Electrode artifact limits somewhat interpretation of the recording over the affected leads.  The lack of epileptiform discharges in a routine EEG does not preclude a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.



