History:	79 YEAR OLD FEMALE WITH POSSIBLE RECURRENT SEIZURE ACTIVITY AND
STROKE.
Medications:
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Over the past 24 hours there has been improvement in the record. Initial there was no posterior
dominant rhythm was present.  The background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage
delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.
However, in time, there is the appearance of a posterior dominant rhythm achieving 8Hz (R>L) and
a more continuous EEG pattern.  By the end of the recording epoch, the patient is awake
clinically, responding to commands, and the background shows diffuse slowing in the theta delta
ranges.  The background is diffusely slow with intermittent attenuation but proceeds to more
continuous cerebral activity.  Initially there was frontal low voltage alpha activity intermixed with the
delta and theta slowing. This pattern changes over time.  Minimal normal sleep architecture was
By the last several hours of the 24 hour epoch, there is evidence of persistent focal slowing (delta)
over the left hemisphere.  There right hemisphere shows theta activity but some faster activity
(alpha) as well.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  By the end of the recording epoch,
there was clear reactivity to auditory and tactile stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG because of diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction. The record improved to a persistent and awake pattern showing focal left hemisphere present slowing, which may reflect structural brain injury.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present. present. These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

