CLINICAL HISTORY:  36 year old woman with multiple sclerosis and epilepsy, with status epilepticus with multiple seizures which began with head turning to the right and left arm shaking followed by generalized convulsive activity.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Vimpat, Topamax.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient is awake, enjoying her lunch.  No more clinical seizures were recorded.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is a slow pattern but rich in beta and theta.  Most of the time it lacks the typical awake morphologies for an adult.  There are intermittent bursts of rhythmic slowing from the right hemisphere.
In sleep, discrete right frontal spikes appear.  In addition, there are some higher amplitude spike or polyspike discharges noted at T2.  These are primarily seen in stage II sleep.  The patient is also sitting and leaning forward.
In addition to the frontal spikes, there also seems to be some lateral rectus spike in stage II sleep.
In the overnight recording, particularly around 3:00 a.m., relatively frequent high amplitude right frontal spikes are noted.  These have a frontotemporal field.  They are associated with focal slowing.
They are nearly isoelectric at T2 and F8 and, in fact, exquisitely localized to the anterior temporal region.
By the afternoon of the 14th, the patient is awake, eating comfortably.  The EEG continues to demonstrate a slow pattern, particularly from the right with generous beta and in wakefulness now there are some well-defined bursts of rhythmic slowing from the right frontotemporal region with a generous field of spread.
HR:     90 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG was remarkable for:
High amplitude right temporal spikes, particularly in stage II sleep.
Intermittent bursts of rhythmic slowing from the right frontotemporal region, particularly in sleep although in later sections of the record well identified in wakefulness.
Generalized background slowing.
Excess beta.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In an awake and active patient, the excess beta and background slowing may be chronic rather than acute findings.  The focal slowing and sharp waves suggest a focal mechanism for the seizures.



