CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 73-year-old woman with a history of end-stage renal disease on dialysis, hepatitis C with subsequent cirrhosis, who now presents with worsening change in mental status, found to have nonconvulsive status epilepticus on EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  Spike detector and seizure detector levels were activated.  Medical staff notes and nursing staff notes were reviewed.  They were reviewed intermittently throughout the recording by attending neurologist.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  During maximal wakefulness the background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity with occasional periods of discontinuity and the EMG artifact.  In the second half of the recording, additional wave forms are observed during wakefulness.  The wave forms have a generalized triphasic appearance with anterior to posterior lag.  Frequency of these triphasic wave forms increases significantly by the end of the recording epoch.  No normal sleep architecture is captured, however, periods of quiescence are observed.  During periods of quiescence the background consists of a mixture of polymorphic moderate to high amplitude theta and delta activity.  Delta activity is more pronounced anteriorly and is sharply contoured.  No frank electrographic seizures are observed.
FINDINGS:
Moderate to moderate to severe diffuse background slowing.
Triphasic wave forms that significantly increased increasing in frequency in the second half of the recording.  Occasional generalized spike and wave discharges are observed with stimulation and could represent a form of triphasic wave forms.  No electrographic seizures are observed.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24 hour continuous audio video EEG monitoring due to moderate to severe diffuse background slowing, triphasic wave forms and occasional diffuse generalized epileptiform discharges.  These findings indicate etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction that is likely toxic metabolic in etiology.  Triphasic wave forms could be seen in various forms of encephalopathy.  Generalized epileptiform discharges indicate increased epileptogenic potential.  However, in this patient it could also represent a form of triphasic wave forms since these generalized discharges are observed primarily with stimulation.  No frank electrographic seizures were captured.



