History:	76 YO FEMALE CC HEADACHE, CONFUSION, AND APHASIC . CT L PARIETAL ICH.
.. PT GOING ON LTM
Medications:	KEPPRA
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
Limited waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left mid to posterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Thirteen electrographic seizure is recorded beginning
with rhythmic 6-12 Hz activity in the posterior quadrant region and evolving into 2-4 Hz activity.
They remain over the same region with minimal spread and lasting from 14 seconds to 2 minutes.
There was no clinical correlate associated to this EEG activity documented on video.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 84
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, left posterior quadrant, Electrographic
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent subclinical
electrographic seizures arising from the left posterior quadrant region.  These findings are
indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this region, and are consistent with subclinical status
epilepticus. In addition there is  continuous focal slowing in the mid to posterior temporal region.
This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region.  These findings were conveyed to
the primary team. Patient will go on to long term monitoring.





