History:	83 year old man who presented with shaking episodes.  Left parietal meningioma
was found.  Patient also has a history of metastasis cancer, unknown if brain
Medications:	Keppra, Ativan
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 26 hours from 03/26/2015 to 03/27/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
During maximal arousal the background consists of low amplitude diffuse beta activity, at times a
PDR of 9 can be seen over the left hemisphere.  There is paucity of faster frequencies over the right
hemisphere.  Sleep spindles are captured.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right hemisphere with associated loss of
faster frequencies.  Continuous independent right anterior and right posterior rhythmic broadly
based sharp waves are captured (PLEDs).  They occur at the repetition rate of ~ 0.75-1 Hz.
Maximal scalp negativity is over F8/T2 and O2/P4/T6 leads, respectively.  Right posterior sharp
waves are frequently accompanied by low amplitude polyspikes.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  Hr was 66
Summary of Findings:
Excessive fast
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 26 Hours EEG due to continuous moderate right
hemispheric focal slowing and independent 0.75-1 Hz right anterior and right posterior rhythmic
epileptiform discharges (PLEDs). These findings indicate focal structural cortical abnormality over
the right with increases epileptogenic potential in the right anterior and right posterior regions.
Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.	involved.






