LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  21 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 65-year-old woman with a past medical history of left MCA/PCA territory stroke, now with chief complaint of left-sided twitching.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin and Keppra.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with an additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with higher voltages at lower amplitudes over the left hemisphere.  During maximal wakefulness, the background over the right hemisphere consists of a mixture of diffuse beta, alpha, and theta.  The background over the left hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic fast activity admixed with theta, alpha, and delta activity.  Delta and theta activity are more pronounced over the left temporal region.  Sleep is captured; however, no normal sleep architecture is observed.  Intermittent sharp waves with after-going slow waves are captured over the left anterior temporal region with phase reversal over the F7/T3 electrode.  Independent lower amplitude sharp waves with undergoing slow waves are observed over the T3 electrode. No electrographic seizures are present.
FINDINGS:
Diffuse slowing.
Focal left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the left temporal region.
Independent epileptiform discharges over F7/T3 electrode and T3 electrode.  No electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 21-minute EEG due to diffuse background slowing, focal left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the left temporal region, and intermittent left temporal epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal slowing indicates underlying cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and this patient is consistent with a history of left hemispheric strokes.  Left temporal epileptiform discharges indicate a potential epileptogenic focus and increased risk for seizures.  No electrographic seizures were captured.



