LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  24 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is an 81-year-old woman with past medical history of diabetes, stroke, hyperlipidemia, who now presents with 2 days of progressive lethargy and weakness.

MEDICATIONS:  Insulin, metoprolol, aspirin, atorvastatin, ciprofloxacin, Dilantin, vancomycin, Zosyn.  Ativan 1 mg was given on 12/13/2012.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Step photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The patient is asleep throughout the majority of the recording.  The patient is awake only for several seconds.  During that period of wakefulness no clear posterior dominant rhythm is observed and there is no clear anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background during that brief wakefulness consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and diffuse beta activity.  Theta activity appears to be more prominent over the left hemisphere.  For the rest of the recording the background consists of low amplitude polymorphic delta activity with occasional periods of diffuse spindle like wave forms.
Hyperventilation was not performed.
Step photic stimulation results in no additional abnormalities.  A single EKG lead demonstrates a heart rate of approximately 100 beats per minute and frequent premature atrial contractions.  No clear epileptiform discharges are captured.
FINDINGS:
Mostly asleep patient
Possible focal slowing over the left hemisphere.
Excess beta.
No clear epileptiform discharges.
Frequent premature atrial contractions observed in a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24-minute EEG due to moderate to severe diffuse slowing.  This finding could be related to severely lethargic/drowsy patient.  During very brief wakefulness there is a suggestion of focal slowing over the left hemisphere, however, that period of wakefulness is too brief to make any certain conclusions.  Excess beta could be the result of medications, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  No clear epileptiform discharges were captured.  Frequent premature atrial contractions were noted on a single EKG lead.



