History:	21 YR FEMALE WITH CC OF SEIZURES LAST SZ 1 WK AGO.   PER PT.  SZ
DESCRIPTION. 1. DROP SZS, 2. FREEZES, HEAD DOWN NO FALL, 3. ABSENCE SZS.
NO GTC X4 YRS. FOLLOW UP EEG.
Medications:	Vimpat, Depakote, Perampanel, Clorazepate
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.
Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the recording and increases
during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta
activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present independently in the left fronto temporal region
more than the right midtemporal region.  Frequent generalized  frontally-maximal spikes are
present.  One brief bursts (1second) of generalized frontally-maximal spike-and-wave discharges was
noted  with a  repetition rate of 3 Hz.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates focal
slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes, 3Hz, intermittent generalized, and isolated frontal predominant spikes
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, left frontotemporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right temporal, mid
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, frequent, mild, Excess theta in wakefulness
Excessive fast
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent frontal predominant
generalized epileptiform discharges, which are potentially epileptogenic. In addition there is
frequent focal slowing in left frontotemporal region and independent intermittent focal slowing in
the right midtemporal region.  These findings are indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction and are
etiologically non-specific. Lastly there is mild  diffuse background slowing.  This finding is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Excessive beta
activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.
sleep spindles and K complexes appear.  HR was 66.




