CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 62-year-old right-handed woman with history of hypertension, asthma, and CHF who presents to EMU for seizure differential diagnosis.  She has episodes of losing time between 5 minutes to 2 hours.
MEDICATIONS:  Hydralazine, metoprolol, Neurontin, lovastatin, insulin, oxycodone, and amitriptyline.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the EMU using the standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  An automated seizure and spike detection system and a patient activated alarm system were used.  Records were reviewed daily for EEG abnormalities and clinical events.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Interictal EEG from 08/12/2013 to 08/15/2013:  In the most alert state, there is a posterior dominant rhythm with frequency of 8.5-10.5 Hz, which is reactive to eye opening.  There is presence of frontal central low amplitude beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  A stage I sleep was characterized by disappearance of alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of eye blink and muscle artifact, as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves.  Stage II sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles.  Slow-wave sleep and REM sleep were also captured.  Focal slow waves seen rarely at F7/T3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolt.
Clinical events:  On 08/14/2013 at 05:37 a.m., there was a push button event as the patient experienced 1 episode of missing time, slurred speech, disorientation.  There were no EEG ictal changes associated with this event.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal video EEG monitoring study due to rare left focal slowing at F7/T3.  Patient had 1 event as described above during this recording while she was awake and reports 1 episode of missing time with disorientation.  This event was associated with no ictal change on EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Focal slowing could be due to structural or functional dysfunction of underlying brain in the subcortical white matter in the left hemisphere.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  Patient had 1 event of missing time and disorientation for a few minutes with no EEG correlations.  This is one of the typical event that patient experiences as a seizure activity.  The capturing of missing time and confusion without any associated ictal change on EEG may be suggestive of a simple partial seizure since simple partial seizures are not always captured on scalp EEG or it could be suggestive of a nonepileptic event.  This EEG monitoring does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy since all of the patient's habitual events have not been captured.  If seizure remain a clinical concern, a repeat video EEG monitoring may be helpful.



