History:	53 year old woman status post prolonged cardiac arrest, now with myoclonic jerks
and posturing events.  Patient will be placed on continuous EEG monitoring.
Medications:	Propofol, Versed
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from 02/14/2014 to 02/15/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  Voltages are diffusely attenuated.  The background consists
of very low amplitude fast activity.  Rhythmic ventilator artifact is present early in the recording.  At
onset there are generalized high amplitude fast activity that rapidly decreases in frequency to
rhythmic diffuse theta activity that rapidly stops. None had a clinical correlate seen in the previous
record.  The bursts appear to become more frequent during the first six hours. After 12 hours the
bursts become less prominent in amplitude and frequency. They also do not seem to evolve
anymore.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
See above.
There is continuous EKG artifact.  HR was 90
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, nearly continuous, severe diffuse
Other, Evolving burst generalized high amplitude fast activity
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 20 hours video-EEG due to severe diffuse slowing, attenuation, lack of
background reactivity. These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse
cerebral dysfunction. The  generalized discharges described above appear to be cortical in nature
and in the ictal - interictal continuum.  The morphology may have changed due medication and/or
evolution of cortical injury.  In the setting of anoxic brain injury all these findings indicate poor
chance of full neurological recovery.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.





