History:	55 year old female brought in by family for altered mental status.
Medications:	Heparin, Lispro
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic
Description:
With maximal wakefulness, 8-9 Hz PDR is noted.  There is mild disorganization with weak AP
gradient.  Additional polymorphic theta activity is noted.  Frequent brief (2-5 second) bursts of
moderate-to-high amplitude 2-4Hz rhythmic bifrontal slow waves occur throughout the recording,
increasing in frequency during drowsiness (FIRDA).  Drowsiness is characterized by increase in
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right anterior region and less frequent
polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior region.  No clear epileptiform discharges are
noted, but right frontal delta activity is at times sharply contoured.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Disorganization, mild
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, moderate, left anterior
No epileptiform discharges
FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and briefly drowsy EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing and
disorganization and bilateral anterior moderate slowing that is more pronounced on the right.
Diffuse slowing and disorganization are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.  Continuous focal slowing is suggestive of a focal structural lesion, especially over the
right anterior region.  No epileptiform discharges are present, but stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If
clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information.  FIRDA
is seen in encephalopathy, increased ICP, bilateral deep white matter lesions.

