REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.



CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 25-year-old man with history of a left cerebellar tumor resection status post chemo and radiation, and epilepsy secondary to the tumor, presents with recurrent seizures with right-sided shaking and confusion, as well as paralysis.



MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Tylenol, Lovenox, Dilantin and clindamycin.



INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while awake.  Activating procedures were not performed.



DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that can only be seen over the right hemisphere that reaches 8.5 Hz.  There is some frontocentral beta seen over the right hemisphere only.  The patient was recorded only in wakefulness.  Activating procedures were not performed.



HEART RATE:  74.



ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Focal slow wave seen continuously over the left hemisphere maximal at T3 at a frequency of 1-2 Hz and an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  This is seen continuously throughout the recording.  At times, it becomes very monomorphic.  In addition, over the anterior electrodes, there appears to be an intermixed frontal very sharply contoured theta that appears in bursts of about 1 second, stops and starts again, occurring intermittently.



SEIZURES:  During the recording, the patient had seizures that began with his eyes turning to the right followed by a burst of head movement to the right, then his right arm became tonic and stretched tonically in front of him, followed by some dystonic posturing of the right hand and trembling while the left arm became flexed at the elbow in front of him making a sign of "4".  Afterward, the patient slowly developed clonic movements and the seizure slowly subsided as the clonic movements decreased in frequency and amplitude. Last ictal jerk was on the right arm.



EEG:  During this episode, the EEG at onset revealed the rhythmic left hemispheric slowing, but no clear onset could be ascertained for the seizure.  The seizure was quickly masked by muscle artifact and there appeared to be some prefrontal sharps in between the muscle artifact.  After the event, there appears to be focal remaining slowing over the left hemisphere and the right hemisphere appears to have almost normal theta to alpha rhythm.



IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to secondary generalized tonic-clonic seizures likely arising from the left frontal region, based on semiology and EEG, in addition to continuous focal slowing over the left hemisphere maximal in the mid temporal region.





CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy with seizures arising from the left hemisphere likely frontal region, in addition to revealing focal structural cerebral dysfunction from the left hemisphere maximal in the mid temporal region which is consistent with the known lesions.  These findings were reported to the primary team as they occurred.














