CLINICAL HISTORY: 24 year old male status post MVA on May 6, 2010, craniotomy, VPS placement, PEG, hydrocephalus, evaluate for generalized tonic clonic seizure. Date of seizure unknown .
MEDICATIONS: Fentanyl patch, Keppra. Levetiracetam
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates a reasonably organized pattern with generous, diffuse beta. There is a 10Hz alpha rhythm which can be identified on occasion from either hemisphere. There is intermittent rhythmic slowing seen in the right central temporal region and sometimes the right posterior temporal region. Hyperventilation is performed and clearly accentuates the focal slowing in the right hemisphere, as well as bringing out a breech rhythm. During hyperventilation there is a discreet T4 sharp wave in the context of a breech rhythm.
HR: N/A
LONG TERM MONITORING 10-108-10/5/2010 or 10/06/2010
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed in the neurosurgical intensive care unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with modifications due to the patient's previous craniotomy. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG includes a dynamic pattern. Some sections are quite slow with primarily slow featureless delta. Other sections have a bit more theta. Eye movement artifact can be seen even during the slow theta frequency areas. The theta particularly in the central regions appears to represent more of an alerting pattern for this individual. Muscle artifact is seen.
There are sections of the record when the patient has frequent eye blinks. The EEG is quite interpretable and the frequent eye blink sections are not associated with any specific changes in the background EEG. No epileptiform features are seen with those symptoms. There is intermittent discontinuity noted in the record including a 3:17 a:m.
In the morning of 10/6/2010, the neurology resident on call is called to evaluate the patient for an eye blink or another behavior. The digital video is reviewed. No epileptiform features are observed at that time.
The patient is suctioned at 5:38 a.m. and again no epileptiform features are seen in association with this. There is some artifact observed at the T2 electrode after manipulation of the patient with suctioning.
HR: 120 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Marked background slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: In this individual with severe brain injury, there is a variable pattern and there is evidence of what is maybe emerging sleep wake cycles which is a positive prognostic feature.



