History:	65 year old female with TBI and intracerebral hemorrhage.
Medications:	levetiracetam, phenytoin
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
There is intermittent focal slowing over the left hemisphere.  There are intermittent left fronto-
temporal sharp waves.  The episodic left hemispheric delta has evolved into a more definitive
pattern in which the there is rhythmic buildup of delta and evolution into clear sharp waves with a
frequency of 1.5-2Hz. This pattern appears more to be an ictal pattern  consistent with left
hemispheric electrographic seizures. These occur approximately every 10-20 minutes.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  There is no behavioral correlate to the electrographic seizures seen.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Seizure, frequent, left hemispheric
Sharp waves, intermittent, left frontotemporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour EEG because of diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm as well as frequent electrographic seizures, left hemisphere slowing, and left frontotemporal
sharp waves. These findings are consistent with frequent seizures emanating from a known structural
lesion in the left hemisphere.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





