CLINICAL HISTORY:   54 year old woman found down on May 13, 2012, for an unknown period of time with a blood glucose of 40 with previous gastric bypass and hypertension and some opiates and benzodiazepines in her urine drug screen with no hepatic or renal problems; possible hypoxic injury.

MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Lovenox, Captopril, Lasix

REASON FOR STUDY:  Anoxic injury

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during responsiveness.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike detection software as well as seizure detection software as well as patient noted events and nurses' notes were used to review the EEG.  In addition, continuous review of the EEG was performed personally.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:   None

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The study opens to a diffusely abnormal background which consists of mainly theta frequencies at 5 to 6 Hz. At times there is intermittent diffuse attenuation for less than 1 second.  During the recording, it appears that the patient is stimulated by either noise or touch.  There appears to be a diffuse attenuation pattern followed by a rhythmic increase of what appeared to be transiently periodic sharply contoured wave forms that at times appear to be triphasic in morphology and at times have focal sharp patterns in both temporal lobes and frontal lobes.  The periodicity of this wave is about 1 to 2 Hz, and appears to continue, even after stimulation for minutes and then slowly subside until the patient is stimulated again.  This pattern is most consistent with stimulus-induced rhythmic ictal discharges (SIRPIDs).  No normal sleep architecture was seen.  No other activating procedures were performed.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
1. Generalized slow waves at 5 to 6 Hz seen continuously throughout the recording.
2. SIRPIDs seen intermittently with stimulation.
3. Muscle reactivity to stimulation along with the SIRPIDs mentioned above.

SEIZURES:   None

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Generalized slowing.
2. SIRPIDs.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  The SIRPIDs may be seen due to a variety of etiologies including anoxia.  It is not clear if they are epileptiform in nature, but the fact that they are induced by stimulation suggests that they are not.  Overall, the EEG pattern seen in this recording is consistent but not exclusive to an anoxic diffuse brain injury.




