CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 51-year-old male status post cardiac arrest, now on February 11th completing hypothermia protocol with rewarming.  Renal failure, possible seizures, long-term monitor, number not listed.
MEDICATIONS:  Vecuronium, fentanyl, Ativan on February 11th, and Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient received vecuronium early in the record.  The patient was euthermic by the end of the EEG recording.  Patient was intubated and comatose throughout without clinical seizures or involuntary movements.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the initial sections of the record include a low voltage pattern, intermittently discontinuous with intermittent, brief blunted paroxysmal bursts of mixed theta delta.  Some sections of the record have more muscle artifact than others.  Shivering was noted in the initial sections of the record.
Review of the video demonstrate some muscle, but no clear involuntary movements.  There may have been some oral automatisms, but the patient's video did not focus.
As the recording continues on the morning of the 12th, the overall pattern is a low voltage, featureless pattern.
Tactile stimulation of the patient did not activate the record.  At the close of the record, there is a little in the way of variability in the overall pattern is a low voltage featureless pattern with perhaps some oral and facial twitching noted around the endotracheal tube.
Heart rate 84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  There is continuous video EEG monitoring session for this patient, who has concluded the hypothermia protocol was remarkable.
Initially a discontinuous pattern.
A very low voltage, relatively featureless pattern with very slow eye movements noted at the end.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In the absence of sedative hypnotic medications with an euthermic patient, these findings carry worrisome prognosis following anoxic insult.



