CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 35-year-old male with likely CNS sarcoid, for second EEG monitoring session  for repetitive seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, insulin, phenobarbital, Decadron, prior use of Keppra, Ativan, metoprolol, Topamax, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  24-hour continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with a 1 channel EKG.  The patient had 12 push buttons on February 2nd and  2 on February 3rd.  The patient described all events as similar with a feeling of left body numbness and 1 episode of left leg tingling.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Background:  The background EEG in wakefulness is abnormal.  There is excess background theta.  There is diffuse background theta.  There is intermittent, somewhat rhythmic left temporal theta, intermittent fast activity in the frontal regions, and intermittent R central focal slowing.  Sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles. There are no clear seizures out of sleep in this section of the record.
Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  There are no classic sharp waves or spikes noted in the record, but in sleep, there are bursts of fast activity.
Pushbuttons/Seizures:  There are 14 push buttons noted in this record for this patient who experiences similar clinical symptoms.  Some of these demonstrate a week electrographic correlate.  There is a lot of muscle activity and for many there is equivocal in increase in theta.  For some there is no clear onset to this seizure, but the later aspects of the seizure include left temporal focal slowing, as was seen in the previous EEG monitoring session.  One seizure at 7:49 p.m., congruent.  The patient's clinical symptoms had a clear EEG signature with rhythmic, 9 Hz activity noted in the right frontal central regions with spread to the midline.  There is frequency evolution of this and then some bilateral slowing noted.  Total seizure duration 22 seconds.  This seizure is similar to previously recorded seizures and is described by the patient as the same seizure symptomatology.  In the seconds that follow, there is some left temporal focal slowing.
Heart rate 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is a challenging, 24 hour video EEG monitoring session and it is remarkable for:
Many push buttons, not all of which have a clear electrographic seizure, but some of which have fragments of the findings seen previously in EEG monitor LTM 15-21.
At least 1 seizure with a clear electrographic seizure.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: All clinical events have similar seizure semiology suggesting that some may be more subtle epileptiform discharges.





