History:	59 year old man with a history of seizures, now presents with seizure recurrence.
Medications:	Dilantin, Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 5/3/2015 till 5/4/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
During periods of arousals, the background consists of a mixture of low amplitude fast activity and
polymorphic theta activity.  Normal sleep architecture, including sleep spindles and REM sleep is
captured.
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is present over the left temporal region.  Many
electrographic seizures are captured. They are occasional, occurring every 1 to 2 hours. They last ~
20-40 seconds.  Electrographically, they are characterized by rhythmic 3-4 Hz low amplitude delta
activity that is seen over the left temporal region with spread over the left hemisphere.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, occasional, left temporal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal
Beta, excessive
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal ~ 24 hours continuous video EEG due to (1) diffuse background slowing; (2)
continuous left temporal focal slowing and (3) occasional left temporal electrographic seizures that
last 20-40 seconds and occur during wakefulness and sleep.  These findings indicate focal
structural lesion over the left temporal region.  Additionally, there is diffuse etiologically non-
specific slowing.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as
benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





