History:	54 year old man with a history of right sided craniectomy for subdural hematoma,
subsequent cardiopulmonary arrest, who on 12/29/2013 was observed to have ~15-
20 minute confusion.
Medications:	Propofol, Ativan, Depakote
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 21  hours from ~10 am on 12/30/2013 till ~ 7 am on
12/31/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.   The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  Frequent periods of brief background discontinuity are noted
early in the recording and later during periods of quiescence.  There is right to left intrahemispheric
asymmetry with lower voltages over the left hemisphere.  The background is characterized by diffuse
polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Underriding fast activity is noted over the right hemisphere,
especially over the parasagittal leads.  Intermittent additional polymorphic delta activity is noted
over the right parasagittal leads.  No normal sleep architecture is present, but periods of quiescence
are observed and characterized by greater degree of discontinuity and generalized beta activity.
No electrographic seizures are noted.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, right midline frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Breach artifact, right hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 21-hour video EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse
background slowing with additional slowing over the right frontocentral region. Diffuse slowing is
indicative of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Focal slowing
indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and is consistent with patient's
history of right SDH and craniectomy.  Breach rhythm is seen in the skull defect.  No electrographic
seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.


