History:	52 year old woman who presents with cerebritis and recurrent seizures.
Medications:	Phenobarbital, Dilantin, versed
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 4/22/2014 till 4/23/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical
neurophysiology fellow and the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse attenuated, low
voltage beta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  As
the recording progresses, there is gradual increase in the degree of slowing and appearance of
frank 1:1 burst-suppression by the end of the recording.  This change is related to initiation of
Versed drip.  Some fragmented sleep architecture is present early in the recording.
There are intermittent left fronto-temporal spikes and sharp waves seen maximal at F7.  They
occasionally occur in brief runs of PLEDs.  There are typical left frontotemporal electrographic
seizures that occur ~ once per hour for the majority of the recording.  They occur on average once
every 2 hours and last ~ 1 minute.  Seizures stop by the end of the recording due to initiation of
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Seizure, left frontotemporal, stop by the end of the recording
Burst-suppression pattern, mild, seen at the end of the recording
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour continuous video EEG because of diffuse background slowing and
burst-suppression, intermittent left frontotemporal spikes, and occasional left frontotemporal
electrographic seizure.  These findings suggest a structural left frontotemporal brain lesion.  Diffuse
slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but
in this case at least partially related to the medication effect.  These findings were conveyed to the
primary team.Versed drip.







