ROOM NUMBER:  773.
MEDICATIONS:  Unknown.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement.  The patient is experiencing left-sided weakness during the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a symmetric reactive 11 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontal central beta.  Abundant stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS.
Epileptiform seizures:  None.
Event time 2:10 p.m.  The patient is awake, nurses in the room.  The patient is purposefully using her right hand and talking on her cell phone.  She does not use her left hand.  This appears to have been a practice pushbutton.  There is no impairment of awareness and the nurse does not do the typical testing as would have been done for a clinical event.
At 2:31 p.m., the patient is awake.  She is looking to the right.  She seems to be upset before the pushbutton and she is looking around.  Her heart rate is 90 beats per minute.  She pushes the button, and then has some tearful speech.  Before the nurse enters, she had been using her left hand and in fact, can be seen to be scratching her nose with the left hand at 2:16.  The patient pushes the button at 2:32.  She is looking to the right and is talking, and seems to be in distress.  She seems to be crying.  __________ at 2:32:48 to console the patient, and the patient is looking to the right.  She is rocking gently and has a hand over her face.  She states that she hit her head and starts vomiting over the side of the bed.  Reviewing the video, although there is a slight gap in the video, it is difficult to see where she might have hit her head.  This is a relatively prolonged event with crying, the patient holding her left hand to her head and intermittent nausea and vomiting.  No epileptiform features were associated with this and the patient seems to be a bit more comfortable by 2:50.
Heart rate:  90 bpm.
There is no impression or clinical correlation because EEG monitoring continues.





