CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 39-year-old woman with childhood epilepsy, which remitted in adulthood, but with recurrent episodes of deja vu, dizziness, and olfactory disturbances following left frontal cavernoma resection.
MEDICATIONS:  none
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  During the overnight section, the patient had 2 episodes of disequilibrium, but none of the olfactory symptoms.  She did not push the button for these symptoms.  The patient was sleep deprived on the night of September 8th.
DATE: 09/08/2014 through 09/09/2014
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  In wakefulness, there is a well-defined 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  In wakefulness, there is a great deal of muscle and movement artifact.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.
Epileptiform Seizures:  None.
Epileptiform Discharges:  There are extremely rare independent, right or left temporal sharp waves noted, primarily seen in the transition and in and out of stage 2 sleep, and maximum in the right or left temporal regions.
Heart rate 60-80 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  The 1st 24 hours of EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
Two episodes of disequilibrium without clear EEG change.
Rare, independent, right or left temporal sharp waves noted in the transition to sleep.
DATE OF STUDY:  September 9 through September 10.
MEDICATIONS:  None.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient had been sleep deprived the night before.  She experiences none of her episodes of deja vu, disequilibrium, or olfactory auras.
Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Abundant stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTs were noted.
Electrographic Seizures:  None.
Pushbuttons:  Practice push buttons only.
Interictal Abnormalities:
breach rhythm with phase reversal and vertex waves at C4, noted occasionally in sleep.
Sharp waves were noted in the transition to sleep, left and then right with superimposed sleep waveforms without sustained epileptiform activity.
Heart rate 60 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  EEG monitoring during the 2nd day of recording identified a fewer epileptiform activities than noted in the 1st day; no clinical seizures were recorded.
DATE OF STUDY:  September 10 through September 11.
INTRODUCTION:  During this section of the EEG monitoring, the patient had episodes of disequilibrium, but none of her typical complex partial seizures or simple partial seizures with olfactory aura.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  Vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles were noted in stage 2 sleep.
Seizures:  None.
Pushbuttons:  Only practice pushbutton detections.
Interictal epileptiform abnormalities:  In the transition from wakefulness into stage 2 sleep, there are occasional independent right or left temporal sharp waves.  These stand out from the background although they are discrete.  They have a somewhat more generous field of spread than accepted for a benign epileptiform variant.  It may occur in pairs.  They are overall, quite rare and are less remarkable than in the baseline.  In stage 2 sleep at times, there is a suggestion of a breach rhythm noted at the vertex.
Heart rate 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION: EEG monitoring during the 3rd day of recording identified a fewer epileptiform activities than noted in the 1st day; no clinical seizures were recorded.
DATE OF STUDY:  09/11/2014 to 09/12/2014
CLINICAL HISTORY:  Childhood epilepsy with intermittent episodes of disconnection and olfactory hallucinosis, status post cavernoma resection.
MEDICATIONS:  none
INTRODUCTION:  A 24-hour continuous video EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  During this section of the record, the patient has no clinical seizures.  She had none of her most disconcerting neurologic symptoms, although she did have intermittent dizziness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm and stage II sleep.  Vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS were noted.
Seizures:  None.
Push Buttons:  Practice push buttons were performed at 7:37 and 7:46 p.m.
Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  This section of the record identified fewer sharp waves and previously noted in temporal regions.
Heart rate 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This was the last day of 2 days of
continuous video EEG monitoring.  The overall monitoring session was remarkable for;
Rare independent right or left temporal sharp waves, less remarkable by the end of the EEG recording.
Some chronic disequilibrium without in an EEG signature.
Not all of the patient's clinical symptoms were captured.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In this individual with childhood epilepsy, this 96 hour video EEG supports a localization related mechanism for epilepsy, but not all of her current symptoms could be addressed in this monitoring session.



