History:	48 yo M w/ hx epilepsy since age 12, w/ SPS and CPS characterized by right arm
shaking and variable cognitive impairment. S/p right temporal AVM resection in
2007 incidentally found during workup for left ICA dissection. Last GTC sz few years
ago. Admitted to EMU.
Medications:	Levetiracetam, Valproate, Eslicarbazepine
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a low voltage pattern with a poorly formed posterior
dominant rhythm of 9Hz.  Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.
During drowsiness, 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by vertex waves.  During stage 2
sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and sleep spindles and K
complexes appear, which are higher amplitude on the right over the breach region.
Continuous rhythmic delta activity is present in the right temporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Background activity shows higher amplitude and accentuation of
faster frequencies over the right hemisphere, consistent with a breach rhythm.  Frequent brief 1-2
second bursts of frontal and central-maximal spike-and-wave discharges occur with a regular
repetition rate of 3Hz.  Occasionally the discharges appear to have a left or right predominance.
They are also followed by polyspikes and spikes and wave discharges with varying fields of
maximum negativity at times more anterior and sometimes even posteriorly.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces a strong photic driving
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes, 3Hz, frequent generalized, Fronto central with an asymmetric onset.
Focal slowing, rhythmic, continuous, right temporal, mid and posterior temporal
Breach artifact
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of fronto central spike-and-wave and
polyspike-and-wave discharges, which are potentially epileptogenic. These discharges could be
seen in an idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Alternatively the slight asymmetry in onset could be
suggestive of a focal onset  with rapid bilateral secondary generalization. In addition there is
continuous focal slowing in the right temporal region and an associated breach.  This finding is
consistent with the known lesion and surgery.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.
response.  HR is 78.


