CLINICAL HISTORY:  Sixty-year-old female with history of hypertension, diabetes, right-sided facial pain, nausea, vomiting, sudden confusion, right gaze deviation, then recurrent shaking.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Dilantin, Heparin, Insulin, Norvasc, Lisinopril, Lipitor
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during lethargy and later on wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  During the first 3-4 hours of the recording, there is a diffuse delta pattern and slowing throughout the recording with a more prominent right hemispheric focal slowing maximal in the occipital lobe and some intermittent right temporal sharp waves.  This is also superimposed to O2 PLEDs that were seen continuously at 1-2 Hz.  About 4 in the morning, this pattern appeared to improve and faster frequencies started to appear over the central and frontal regions of the recording.  The EEG continued to improve over the next hours with some normal sleep architecture and the faster frequencies over the right hemisphere.  By 2 p.m., the faster frequencies and the posterior dominant rhythm during wakefulness appears to be 9 Hz with a normal frontocentral beta.  At that point, there is intermittent right hemispheric slowing, but not as frequent as before and some intermittent FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity).  By the end of the recording, there is a lot of muscle artifact which makes it difficult for visualization, permits limits visualization of the EEG.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  As above, described as at onset, there were O2 PLEDs and focal slowing in the right hemisphere, maximal at O2 with some intermittent T4 sharp waves and generalized slowing.  This continued to improve until the end of the recording where the EEG almost normalizes.  However, there is some intermittent FIRDA.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Right occipital periodic lateralized epileptic discharges and right midtemporal sharp waves in addition to right hemispheric slowing maximal at the occipital region which improved and with intermittent FIRDA.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal structural dysfunction and irritability of the right hemisphere, maximal in the occipital region in addition to some generalized dysfunction.  All of these findings appear to have improved markedly over the last 24 hours.  No seizures were seen.



