History: 54 YR FEMALE PRESENTS WITH MULTI EPISODES OF STARING SPELLS X1 MIN
SIP RIGHT RESECTION FOR RIGHT SPHENOID WING MENINGIOMA ON
11/12 ......01/03/13 PT IS PRESENT HAVING RADIATION TREATMENT.
Medications: Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Typo: Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique: International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with nm electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. Symmetric 5·1 5uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.
During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.
Polymorphic, at times sharply contoured, theta and delta activity is present over the right hemisphere, especially over the right temporal-parietal region. Additionally, under riding faster frequencies are observed over the right temporal-parietal region. No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates focal stowing over the right hemisphere Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces bilateral photic driving at multiple flash rates. Photic response is more prominent over the right
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild. right temporoparietal
Breach artifact, right temporoparietal
No epileptiform discharges
No stage 2 sleep
Focal slowing, polymorphic. continuous, mid, right temporoparietal. mild-to-moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 21·minute awake and drowsy EEG due to mild-to-moderate continuous focal right temporoparietal focal slowing. This finding is Indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region and is consistent with patients history of meningioma resection. Breach reach is secondary to a skull defect.
No epileptiform discharges are present but stage 2 sleep was not recorded. If clinically indicated, repeat EEG with sleep recording may provide additional information. The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.




