S
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 40-year-old woman status post craniotomy and right temporal lobe resection January of 2011, now status post miscarriage November 24.  Patient is beginning to have symptoms which are unlike her typical seizures characterized by a strange aura as if something is coming over her face or eyes as well as right leg tingling.  Hypertension, diabetes, anemia.

This is a 48 hour EEG, 12/11 to 12/13.

MEDICATIONS:  Trileptal, others

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  The patient was noted to have a prominent craniotomy skull deformity.  She pushes the button for many symptoms including funny feelings in her feet and the feeling as if something is coming over her eyes.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  December 11 to December 12:   In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm identified on the left, this is sometimes disrupted on the right.  Focal slowing is noted in the right temporal region with a breech rhythm and occasional more rhythmic slowing from the right.  Stage II sleep is characterized by vertex waves and spindles.  As the patient transitions to sleep, the focal slowing is more prominent and sharp waves are noted in the context of a breech rhythm at T4-T6 and C4-T4.

Push button:  04:21 p.m., the patient is working with the nurse who is checking the finger sticks.  At this time, she reports that every 10 minutes, she feels a funny feeling over her face.  No seizures are noted at this time and there are no paroxysmal build-ups in the right temporal region.  A repeat push button was noted at 04:30, again for the same symptoms.  Patient is awake and conversant with the nurse and the patient pushes the button again at 04:36.  Patient is watching television.  There are some rhythmic data from the right temporal region and a sharp wave noted at 04:38.  The patient is able to communicate with others and have purposeful activity.  There is no definitive ictal pattern for this.

At 06:23, push button event, the patient is awake during this push button event.  No definitive ictal changes are noted but she does have a heart rate of 104.  No behavioral changes were noted.  There is a slight change in rhythmic data but no definitive ictal pattern was noted.  Push button time 01:45 a.m., patient pushes the button.  There is a clear alpha noted on the right for this push button and no definitive epileptiform activity was noted.  Heart rate 96 beats per minute.  Push button 02:56, patient is awake, there is a well-defined alpha rhythm, no epileptiform activity is noted.  Heart rate is somewhat difficult to discern because of the EKG artifact.

A series of push buttons are noted between 2:56 a.m. and 3:24 a.m. with an awake individual.  Additional push buttons are noted spanning 2:56 a.m. up to 3:24 a.m.  No epileptiform features are noted and the patient intermittently transitions in and out of stage II sleep.

December 12 through December 13:  During random wakefulness and sleep, in wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm.  There is intermittent focal slowing from the right temporal region.  Stage II sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes and spindles.  Sharp waves are a bit more prominent in sleep than in wakefulness in this individual with a prominent breech rhythm.

IMPRESSION:
DICTATION ENDS HERE


