History:	56 YO MALE WITH SEIZURE HX SINCE CHILDHOOD WITH GTC TONGUE BITING
AND LOSS OF CONTINENCE. LAST EVENT 4 WEEKS AGO.
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central
theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Occasional focal sharp waves are present phase reversal
and amplitude maximum at F7.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR was
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of intermittent epileptiform
discharges  and focal slowing in the left anterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of
a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region, and given the clinical history of partial seizures, are
consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy. In addition there is mild  diffuse
background slowing.  This finding is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is





