LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  27 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 39-year-old man with a history of seizures status post motor vehicle accident in 1999.  Seizures are characterized by the patient becoming stiff and not able to speak.  Seizures occur about 3 times a month.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Tegretol, lamotrigine.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with an additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.   The EEG was performed at the laboratory.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic variable amplitude 9 Hz alpha activity.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient that is weak.  During drowsiness, bursts of theta and attenuation of the posterior dominant are captured.  Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is captured over the left hemisphere, primarily over the left temporal region.  Moderate to high amplitude sharp waves with after-going slow waves are captured over the left central region with phase reversal over the C3/T3 electrode.  At approximately 1:35:25 p.m., a 3-second run of 2 Hz of these sharp waves is captured.  Additional independent rare sharp waves and after-going slow waves are captured over the right anterior temporal region with phase reversal over F8 electron.  During drowsiness, a 5-second run at 0.75 Hz is captured over the F8 electrode.  Sharp waves over the O1 electrode are captured during sleep.  These sharp waves are observed during sleep.  Additionally, during sleep, rhythmic approximately 3 Hz brief runs of sharp waves with after-going slow waves are captured over the bilateral central region, more prominent over the left.  Symmetrical sleep spindles are captured.  Temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA) is observed over the left.  Hyperventilation is performed with fair effort and does not result in significant change in the background.  Stepped photic stimulation did not produce additional abnormalities.
FINDINGS:
Continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left temporal region.
Independent epileptiform discharges observed over C3/T3 electrode, O2 electrode, and F8 electrode.  Left TIRDA.  No clear electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal awake and asleep EEG due to continuous left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left temporal region, as well as independent and synchronous multifocal epileptiform discharges observed over the left central, left occipital, and right frontal/anterior temporal region.  This finding indicates increased epileptogenic potential, multifocal in etiology, most pronounced over the left central temporal region.  Left hemispheric slowing indicates underlying focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.  No clear electrographic seizures were captured.



