Encounter Date: 08/28/2015
a 21 y.o. male referred for routine EEG for seizures- with aura of bad taste followed by confusion.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. No current facility-administered medications for this visit.
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) recording using the International 10-20
system with T1/T2 electrodes was performed utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and HV.
EEG BACKGROUND :
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior
Encounter bate:08/28/2015
gradient. Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening. In wakefulness there is occasional shifting temporal slowing, at times sharply contoured
on the right.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous POSTS. Slow wave sleep is not captured.
PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY: Paroxysmal higher amplitude temporal theta, L>R EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No definitive  epileptiform activity is present. Rare R sharply contoured slow T2 maximum
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: minimal increase in theta Photic Stimulation: not done
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is a mildly abnormal awake-and-asleep 1 hour EEG due to:
1. shifting asynchronous temporal bursts.
CLINICAL  CORRELATION:
No epileptiform features were defined,though there is some sharply contoured slowing on the right. The bilateral features above are nonspecific and may be correlated with imaging and history.
Attending Epileptologist: MD
I have personally reviewed this study, and this report represents my findings and conclusions.
Orders
Unaligned Orders
None
Routing History
None
Encounter Date: 08/28/2015




