LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  Approximately 21 minutes.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with position of additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  Patient is a 65-year-old man with history of cardiac rest status post prolonged CPR now with diffuse myoclonus concerning for status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Valproic acid, lorazepam and 4 mg vecuronium given during the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient, Until approximately 10 minutes into the recording the EEG consists of high amplitude diffuse irregular EMG artifact with frequent brief periods of discontinuity.
At approximately 8 minutes into the recording, 4 mg of vecuronium is administered.  Approximately 10 minutes into the recording, EMG artifact disappears.  Once EMG artifact is cleared, the background consists of low to moderate amplitude, generalized frontally predominant, spikes and poly spikes with after-going slow waves that occur at approximately 1.5 to 4 Hz.  These discharges appear both rhythmically and semi-rhythmically.  They do not organize into clear electrographic seizures.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
FINDINGS: 1.  Frontally predominant generalized 1.5 to 4 Hz G-PEDs and quasi PEDs.
2. No clear electrographic Seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 21-minute electroencephalogram due to continuous generalized frontally predominant epileptiform discharges that occur rhythmically and semi-rhythmically at approximately 1.5 to 4 Hz.  No clear electrographic seizures are captured.  This electroencephalogram pattern indicates high cortical irritability, high risk for status epilepticus and in post anoxic brain injury indicates a poor chance for full neurological recovery.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consultation team.



