History:	29 yo female sz since menstrual cycle began (12 yo), GTC +LOC, + Tongue bite
(occasionally), + urinary incont (1 time), duration: < 1 min. Frequency: 2-3 weeks for
past couple months. last sz DEC 31st. - Aura, post ictal - 3-4 days to get back to
Medications:	Trileptal, Vimpat ( being taken off), keppra (just starting)
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central
theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  Occasional brief bursts (1-3seconds) of bifrontal-maximal spike-and-
wave discharges and polyspike-and-slow-wave discharges occur with a regular repetition rate of 3.0
Hz.  This burst appear to have asymmetric in onset at times with a right frontal (F4) onset.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR was
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive, mild, Excess theta in wakefulness
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of intermittent bifrontal spike-and-
wave and polyspike-and-wave discharges, which at times appear to have an asymmetric onset.
These are epileptogenic and may represent a fragment of a generalized epilepsy or alternatively
they may be focal discharges with rapid  bilateral secondary synchrony. In addition there is evidence
of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologic non-specific.





