History:	63 year old man with a history of right frontal ICH, now presents with change in
mental status and 3 witnessed focal seizures.
Medications:	Ativan
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 41 hours from 08/20/2014 to 08/22/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  The
background over the left consists of a mixture of polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude
polymorphic theta, alpha and beta activity with under riding delta activity that is most pronounced
anteriorly.  The background over the right hemisphere consists of polymorphic low amplitude theta
activity posteriorly and attenuated polymorphic delta activity anteriorly with continuous semi-
rhythmic and rhythmic ~0.25 Hz high amplitude right anterior temporal sharp  waves with
after going slow waves (quasi-PLEDs and PLEDs).  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over T2/T4
electrodes.  Epileptiform discharges occasionally briefly increase in frequency to 0.75-1 Hz.  No
During the first 17 hours no seizures were seen. The on 08/21/2014 at 8:19 AM there was an
electrographic seizure.  After there 9 more short electrographic seizures were seen until 2pm. After
this no more seizures were seen.  The seizures consisted of a rhythmic build up in frequency and
amplitude of the right anterior temporal PLEDs from delta frequency discharge  up to an alpha
frequency discharge (8-9Hz) without any spread and then suddenly stopping.  They lasted from 5-
17seconds. There was no clinical correlate associated to this EEG activity documented on video.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 96
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, few, right temporal, anterior, electrographic
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, right temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right temporal, anterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Interpretation:

normal sleep architecture is present but periods of quiescence are captured. This is a very abnormal 41 hours EEG due to few right anterior temporal electrographic seizures. In
addition there is mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing, focal right hemispheric moderate-to-severe
slowing that is especially pronounced anteriorly and continuous periodic and semi periodic
epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing and frequent epileptiform
discharges in the right anterior temporal region are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal
structural lesion in the that region.


