LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  Twenty-five minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 57-year-old man with a history of hepatitis B and C, COPD, depression, and coronary artery disease.  Now presents with reported seizures.  These seizures are generalized tonic-clonic convulsions with loss of consciousness and tongue biting and urinary incontinence, lasting approximately 1-2 minutes.  Seizures started approximately 4 years ago after a head injury.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include Depakote, Proventil, lisinopril, Advair, trazodone, __________, Spiriva.
INTRODUCTION:  Condition of the recording:  The recording was performed according to the 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead. Hyperventilation was not performed secondary to patient's history of COPD. Photic stimulation was performed. The record was performed at the laboratory.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well formed and modulated, moderate amplitude 10.5 to 11 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During brief drowsiness, a posterior dominant rhythm attenuates and bursts of diffuse theta are captured.  Occasional polymorphic theta activity is observed over the left anterior temporal region.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Step photic stimulation results in symmetrical occipital driving and multiple flash frequencies.
EKG demonstrates intermittent premature QRS complexes.
FINDINGS:
Occasional mild left anterior temporal slowing.
No epileptiform discharges.
No stage II sleep.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and briefly drowsy 25 minute electroencephalogram due to occasional mild left anterior temporal slowing. This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  No epileptiform discharges were captured, however, stage II sleep was not recorded.  If clinical indication of epilepsy persists, a repeat study with stage II sleep may be of benefit.  A lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not preclude the clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.



