
CLINICAL HISTORY: 52 year old right handed woman with right carotid stenosis and a complicated neurologic history for right CEA.
MEDICATIONS: Propofol, SEVOFLURANE, Hydralazine, Fentanyl, Lidocaine, Versed, Epinephrine, Rocuronium
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the operating room and then subsequently in the LTM for this adult using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed. Because of the initial abnormalities recorded in the OR, a more prolonged study was undertaken.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the record begins in the operating room the patient has been sedated. The activity is low voltage relatively suppressed from the right hemisphere. The left hemisphere demonstrates spike and slow wave complex with a relatively large field of spread throughout the left temporal region including the posterior temporal region. Conventional sensitivities is medium amplitude and the spike seems to be maximum anterior temporal but with significant posterior spread. The use of an average reference demonstrates a left anterior temporal spike. As the record continues by 9:40 with anesthesia, the epileptiform activity is a bit less prominent. At 9:43 the record is imminently somewhat discontinuous. The record is continuous with an incision at 10 a.m. Patency is confirmed by Doppler at 10:58 and then subsequently the carotid is clamped at 11:01. The EEG demonstrates some discontinuity bilaterally with an ongoing left anterior temporal spike. Placement of the clamp at 11:01 of the internal carotid does not change the background although the overall background is somewhat discontinuous. As the recording continues there is a very anesthetic pattern with intermittent discontinuity. The clamp is removed at 11:42. Again, throughout this, the record demonstrates an anesthetic pattern with intermittent discontinuity but with relatively arrhythmic symmetric background with the exception of the spike on the left.

The recording continues throughout the close of the operative procedure and as the patient emerges from anesthesia and the background is increasingly rich in beta and alpha frequency activity. The spike disappears. In addition, the previously noted asymmetry with slowing on the right emerges. The first section of EEG recording is 3 hours and 20 minutes.


Additional EEG recording continues at the bedside in the neurosurgical ICU. The EEG demonstrates a sedated pattern with generous beta and slowing on the right compared to the left compatible with the past history of the uncinate infarct.

HR: 72 bpm

IMPRESSION: EEG is remarkable for:
1. Left anterior temporal spike seen under anesthesia.
2. Right anterior temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings support a structural process on the right. Correlation with history given the left anterior temporal spikes is suggested.



