History: 61 YR OLD FEMALE WITH KNOWING GBM PRESENTS WITH R/O STATUS.
EEG Type: Extended, >60 min, portable
Medications: Dilantin, Keppra, Phenobarbital
Sedation: None
EEG Type: Extended, >60min, portable
Technique: International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1!T2 electrodes. comatose
Extended EEG monitoring was performed for 7.5 hours from 09/18/13 to 09/19/13. Please note the patient was disconnected for hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw E EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.
# Push button events 0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm is present. The normal anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies is not
seen. Background consists almost entirely of low voltage irregular 4-7Hz activity. No normal sleep architecture was present.
Frequent focal sharp waves and polyspike and wave in rhythmic runs with PLEDs at 1Hz and at time are
present in the left hemisphere mainly in the frontal region, with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F7!T3. Frequently these occur in runs.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed. During the recording the patient exhibited
transient clinical posturing with tonic extension of her upper extremities. Please note that this behavior
had markedly improved at the end of the record. The EEG was obscured by muscle artifact. Please note
that the record was best reviewed at 3uv/mm and 1 0 sec/mm.
Interpretation:
This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral irritability in the left hemisphere maximal in the frontal
region with multiple discharges consistent with electrographic seizures. The episodic posturing is likely
epileptic as it appears to correlate with the discharges previously seen. In addition there is evidence of
marked diffuse cerebral dysfunction which is non specific with regards to etiology.



