History:	31 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O  EPISODE OF FEELING OF "PINS
AND NEEDLES" THROUGH OUT BODY ALONG WITH ANXIETY LASTING FOR
APPROX 1 MIN. PT STATES THAT THIS HAS HAPPENED 4 TIMES WITH
FEELING NAUSEA AND TIRED AFTER EVENT.
Medications:	PROZAC
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.
During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the
record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right frontotemporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent focal spikes are present with phase reversal
and amplitude maximum at F4. They have a large fronto temporal field to F8.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces diffuse,
symmetric high-voltage, frontally-maximal 2-3Hz activity.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21
flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving.  Hr was 84
Summary of Findings:
Excessive fast
Focal slowing, rhythmic, intermittent, right frontotemporal
Spikes, frequent, right frontal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent epileptiform discharges
in the right frontal region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this
region. In additional  intermittent focal slowing in the right fronto-temporal region.  This finding is
indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.  Excessive beta activity
could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.
S





