History:	47 year old man with a history of brain tumor and seizures, now presents with
episodes of confusion.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, photic
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  The
background over the left consist of low amplitude 10 Hz PDR with expected normal AP gradient.
The background over the right consists of polymorphic 7-8 Hz activity posteriorly and moderate to
high amplitude often sharply contoured theta and delta activity, especially prominent over the
frontotemporal region.  Patient remains awake throughout the entire recording.
A single brief ~ 1 minute electrographic seizure is captured at ~11:11:25 AM.  There is no formal
testing and there is no obvious clinical manifestation seen on the video.  It is characterized by
rhythmic ~6 Hz theta activity over the right temporal and frontocentral regions.  Similar activity later
seen over the bilateral frontal leads. High amplitude rhythmic diffuse (primarily bifrontal, right>left)
delta activity is seen  at the end of the ictal run.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.  A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate of up to
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, occasional, right, ~1 min, temporal and frontocentral onset
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right hemispheric, especially frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 22 minute portable EEG due to continuous moderate right hemispheric
slowing and a single focal right temporal/ frontocentral seizure lasting ~1 minute without obvious
clinical correlate. These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focal structural lesion over the
right.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team.  Patient will be placed on






