CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 75-year-old, right-handed man who admitted to the hospital after acute onset of aphasia consistent with left middle cerebral artery stroke, status post administration of IV tPA. The patient developed 1 episode of worsening aphasia and right-sided weakness lasting for an hour.

MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include aspirin and Keppra.

INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed at the bedside using the standard International 10/2020 System of electrode placement in addition to T1 and T2 electrodes and 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 9-9.5 Hz in frequency 30-35 microvolt in amplitude seen in the right occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening and for the most part of this recording disrupted on the left side.  There was right hemispheric attenuation and loss of faster frequency noted.  There was continuous slowing in delta range with a frequency of 2-3 Hz and theta range with a frequency of 5-7 Hz noted in left cerebral hemisphere.  There were intermittent sharp waves, most prominent at F7/T3 region consistent with left anterior and midtemporal region with no evolution or electrographic seizures.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and resulted in no significant driving response.  Heart rate was 80-85 beats per minute.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG capturing patient during wakefulness only due to,
1. Left hemispheric attenuation and loss of faster frequencies.
2. Left hemispheric slowing.
3. Intermittent sharp wave discharges with no evolution, most prominent in left anterior and midtemporal regions.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Left hemispheric slowing is suggestive of structural lesions, most pronounced in subcortical and white matter regions.  Left hemispheric attenuation and loss of faster frequencies in this patient is likely due to underlying cortical lesions, i.e., left hemispheric stroke.  Other causes include extra-axial or subclavian fluid collection.  Continuous left hemispheric slowing could be seen in the structural lesions in the subcortical white matter of the underlying brain.  Intermittent left temporal sharp waves is suggestive of cortical irritability in this region that place this patient at higher risk for seizures.  Clinical correlation is recommended.




