CLINICAL HISTORY:  44 year old woman with a history of schizophrenia, diabetes found in bedroom, unresponsiveness.  Glucose was normal.  Had run out of Klonopin for the last couple days.
MEDICATIONS:  Benztropine, Paxil, Risperidone, Klonopin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Unresponsiveness.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video routine EEG was performed using the 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some movement artifact while awake.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a moderately diffusely slow background with the majority of the frequencies in the theta range of 5-7 Hz.  There is actually a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches at times 9 Hz but mainly it is in the 7-8 Hz range.  The overall background is also disorganized and there is a lacking of normal frontocentral beta multiple times through the recording.  In between this theta disorganized background there is intermittent bursts of diffuse delta that at times appeared to be more on the left anterior temporal and at times more on the right anterior temporal, sometimes equally diffuse and with some sharp components in both posterior parietal regions.  The patient appears to go to sleep but no typical sleep architecture is seen.  Hyperventilation which was performed with a poor effort by the patient revealed some exacerbation of this diffuse slowing.  Photic stimulation produced no abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Generalized slow waves at 5-7 Hz seen almost continuously while in wakefulness and sleep.
Burst of generalized delta at 2-4 Hz.
Focal flow is seen independently at F7/T3 and at times at F8/T4.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Generalized slowing.
Independent bilateral temporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction as well as independent bilateral anterior temporal focal cerebral dysfunction, both of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.



