History:	52 year old woman with a history of medically refractory childhood epilepsy.
Medications:	Albuterol, Lamictal and Ativan
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake,
drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  During drowsiness, the background
slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm
attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate
voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles, and vertex waves.
No focal slowing is present.  Abundant generalized frontally-maximal spikes with aftergoing slow
waves are present.  While awake, they occasionally occur in 1-2 second bursts of generalized 3-4 Hz
spikes with aftergoing slow waves.  When patient falls asleep, high amplitude isolated generalized
frontally predominant spikes and polyspikes are captured.  At times they are more pronounced over
the right.  A phenomenon of dyshormia is captured during sleep.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and exacerbates
generalized epileptiform discharges.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
induces symmetric photic driving at flash rates from 3 to 13 fps.
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes, fast, frequent generalized, 3-4 Hz
Sleep, stage 2
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 1 hour EEG due to 3-4 Hz generalized frontally
predominant spike and waves and polyspike and wave discharges. These findings are suggestive of
generalized mechanism of epilepsy, however, scone occasional right sided epileptiform discharge
predominance is present, secondary bisynchrony too is a possibility.






