History:	44 YR FEMALE CC APHASIA/RIGHT SIDE WEAKNESS. [PT WITH SEIZURE 3/28.).
METASTATIC BREAST CA, S/P CHEMO, DOUBLE MASTECTOMY, S/P WHOLE
BRAIN RX.  MULTI CNS LESIONS
Medications:	KEPPRA
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 16.5 hours from 03/31/15 to 04/01/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.    Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows
further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
No focal slowing is present.  At the onset of the record reveals a seizure which consisted of rhythmic
O2 sharp waves at 2-3 Hz continuously for 48 minutes. Clinically the patient is unresponsive and
has a left gaze deviation. The record stopped and when it returns minutes later there  the seizure
stopped and there are periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) present in the O2 region
at a rate of 1 Hz. These discharges stop about an hour later. A diffusely slow background remains.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  Hr was 132
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, single, marked, right occipital
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, right occipital
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of focal status epilepticus for 48 minutes arising from the right
occipital lobe. There is also moderate to severe diffuse background slowing and absent alpha
rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.




