CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 47-year-old man with brain abscess in the left frontal region during childhood and epilepsy since age 16 with a seizure-free interval up until 2011 and seizures recurring in June 2012 including generalized tonic-clonic seizures, prolonged difficulty with speech and intermittent brief staring spells.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal, Celexa, and phenytoin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.  The patient was awake, drowsy, and asleep during the study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  A routine 21-channel EEG was performed utilizing a standard 10-20 system of electrode placement along with hyperventilation and EKG monitoring.  Awake resting background reveals mildly disorganized 20-40 microvolt amplitude, 7.5-9 Hertz activity posteriorly.  Alpha activity attenuates with eye opening.  Low voltage frontocentral beta activity was noted.  There was a large amount of muscle artifact and prominent EKG artifact.  Occasional intermixed medium amplitude anteriorly predominant 4-5 Hertz activity was seen, increasing during drowsiness.  During more prominent drowsiness, attenuation of posterior rhythmic activity and increased low to medium amplitude generalized slowing were seen.  Stage 2 sleep was seen with increased generalized slowing and diminished beta activity.  During sleep, intermittent paroxysmal bursts of sharp, spike, and slow activity were noted ranging from 1-8 seconds in duration.  They were all least symptomatic with the patient sleeping during these abnormal discharges.  The paroxysmal activity appeared to start in a generalized fashion, although multifocal and sharp and spike discharges were seen most frequent with phase reversal at C4 and F4 with several of the bursts containing phase-reversing spikes at C3.  Hyperventilation for 2 and 1-1/2 minutes produced no significant activation in the record.  EKG monitor showed normal sinus rhythm at 68 per minute with intraventricular conduction defect.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG secondary to mild disorganization and borderline slowing of dominant and posterior rhythm during wakefulness and frequent asymptomatic brief paroxysmal burst of generalized spike sharp and slow activity with what appeared to be multifocal spike in sharp waves, most common in the right frontocentral region at F4 and C4 and less often on the left at C3.




