TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG during wakefulness.
DIAGNOSIS:  Change in mental status, rule out seizure.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 42-year-old ambidextrous male with a history of catatonia, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and obstructive sleep apnea who presents with increased agitation.  The patient is nonverbal since 09/15/2012.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include Tegretol, baclofen, lorazepam, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed at the bedside using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to one channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.  This tracing captured the patient in a confused and agitated state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is diffuse slowing of background activity consisting of 5 to 6 Hz theta activity intermixed intermittently with 1.5 to 2 Hz delta activity during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  There were occasional bursts of frontal intermittent delta activity, FIRDA, seen with a frequency of 1 to 1.2 Hz and an amplitude of 60 to 70 microvolts, lasting for 1 to 2 seconds.  There is also a small amount of low amplitude diffuse beta activity which is distributed symmetrically.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple frequencies and did not result in a driving response.  The patient was agitated during the study, which makes the study limited due to the presence of movement and muscle artifact at times.  Heart rate 100 to 110 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to diffuse slowing of background activity with theta and delta range during wakefulness.  There is also FIRDA bursts during wakefulness.  This study is limited due to the presence of movement and muscle artifacts.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to metabolic toxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the fact of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepines or barbiturates, or could be due to anxiety or hyperthyroidism.  The presence of FIRDA is also associated with increased intracranial pressure or midline brain mass.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures are captured.  This does not rule out a diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



