History:	21 year old man with gun shit wound to the head in 07/2012 (right side).  He now
has daily headaches.
Medications:	Methadone, Neurontin, Flonase
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Posterior dominant rhythm is higher in amplitude by greater than
50% over the right.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal
regions.  During sleep, vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes are noted.  Sleep architecture
is more prominent over the right.
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is present over the right middle and posterior
regions.  Underriding fast activity is noted over the right middle and posterior regions.  No
epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with fair cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional
abnormalities.  Bradycardia (<60 bpm) is noted on a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Breach artifact, right
Asymmetry, sleep architecture, better formed over the right
Asymmetry, alpha, higher in amplitude over the right
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right, mild-to-moderate, middle and posterior quadrants
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 22-minute EEG due to continuous mild to moderate focal
slowing over the right middle/posterior quadrants and asymmetry of sleep architecture and
posterior dominant rhythm over the right. These findings are indicative of a focal structural lesion
over the right and is consistent with a history of gun shot wound to that region.  Breach artifact is
secondary to a skull defect.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out
a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.  Bradycardia (<60 bpm) is noted on a single EKG lead.


