CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 61-year-old male with previous left frontal resection for GBM, schizophrenia and hepatitis C, found confused on the ground on the 20th with frontal edema and a brain mass.  Status post radiation and chemotherapy in 2012.

MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Dilantin, Cogentin

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside in the ICU standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  This is a 40-minute EEG in a confused individual.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not possible.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There are some sections of the record particularly when the patient is stimulated where the EEG demonstrates a 9 Hz alpha rhythm on the right.  There is occasionally an alpha rhythm identified on the left.  Relevant features for this EEG include continuous, arrhythmic delta activity in the left hemisphere, maximum frontotemporal with a generous field of spread and disruption of faster frequency activity throughout the left frontocentral and frontotemporal region.  A breach rhythm was identified.  Intermittent bursts of paroxysmal fast activity were noted in the left frontocentral region with spread to the midline.

This individual had several behaviors including head turning to the left and staring.  The individual was confused throughout.

During this EEG, there appeared to have been 2 electrographic seizures without clear clinical correlate and without clear evidence of this other stereotypic behavior which was described.  The patient seemed to stare vacantly, but on 1 occasion was mumbling and squeezing fingers.  Seizure onset and offset is difficult to determine, but the discharges seemed to build up at 9:04 and again less clearly at 9:18.  Just prior to the 9:18, 9:19 discharge the epileptiform activity with paroxysmal periodic sharply contoured delta at T3 had been abating.

Ativan was given which clearly decreased both the bursts of paroxysmal fast activity in the left frontal region and the paroxysmal sharply contoured activity in the left frontotemporal region.  By the end of the EEG, occasional isolated sharp waves maximum at F3 were identified.

Heart rate 96 BPM.

IMPRESSION:
1. Although seizure onset and offset were difficult to determine, this EEG does demonstrate poorly defined seizures.
2. Focal slowing in the left frontocentral region.
3. Left frontocentral paroxysmal fast activity.
4. Sharp waves noted in the left hemisphere including T3 and F3.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a late form of status epilepticus or a very irritative pattern.  The results were reported to the team and EEG monitoring was initiated.



