AGE: 67 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 12/07/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient
EEG TYPE: 40-60 min, awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1774
HISTORY:
67 y.o. female with a history of seizures, reportedly seizure free for 20-30 years. On 11/25/2015 she had generalized shaking and stiffening in the middle of the night; the following morning she was very tired. She is referred for routine EEG for further evaluation.
MEDICATIONS: no AEDs SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE :
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the
International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with mild excess of theta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal
anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.	There are additionally occasional bursts of irregular sharply contoured delta activity in wakefulness for < 5 second runs.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes . Slow wave sleep was not captured.
There is mild generalized slowing is present.
There is frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing. There is frequent independent right temporal polymorphic slowing.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
Occasional (1/hour to <1 min) right temporal (T2 > F8/T4) sharp waves, activated by sleep.
Occasional (1/hour to <1 min) left temporal (Tl > F7/T3) sharp
waves, seen in drowsiness .
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES :
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.
Photic Stimulation : Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
An irregular heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:
Mild generalized slowing
Frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing
Frequent independent right temporal polymorphic slowing
Occasional (1/hour to <1 min) right temporal (T2 > F8/T4) sharp waves, activated by sleep.
Occasional (1/hour to <1 min) left temporal (Tl > F7/T3) sharp waves, seen in drowsiness.
An irregular heart rate of 60 bpm captured on a single EKG lead.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal cerebral dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, and bitemporal independent epileptogenic potentials . An irregular heart rate is captured on a single EKG lead.




