REASON FOR STUDY:  Change in mental status.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 54-year-old woman with change in mental status and recent seizures with a history of epilepsy, schizophrenia, EPOC, and left mesial temporal sclerosis.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  The EKG electrode does not show a very good rhythm, a very low amplitude rhythm.  In addition, the impedances on the occipital electrodes and the right frontal and central electrodes were very high due to difficulty with the patient.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a recording that is mainly in sleep.  The patient is aroused at one point during the study and there appears to be a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 8 Hz, mainly seen over the right hemisphere, but for a short duration, again in the setting of electrode with a high impedance.  Overall the record is recorded during stage I and stage II and the first stages of sleep.  The patient falls asleep fairly quickly throughout this study.
Heart rate:  78 and appears to be regular.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal slow waves seen frequently at F7/T3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-50 mV, at times with a very sharply contoured component.  Sometimes they appear to become rhythmic, but not clearly evolved or become continuous.
Focal slowing seen intermittently at T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-60 mV.
Mild excessive theta in wakefulness and limited wakefulness.
Seizures:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left anterior temporal focal slowing, as well as right mid temporal focal slowing and mild excessive theta in limited wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG in limited wakefulness reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left anterior temporal region and independently in the right mid temporal region, both of which are nonspecific in regards to etiology.  In addition, the patient appears to have some mild diffuse generalized dysfunction, which is also nonspecific in regard to etiology.  No seizures or clear epileptiform discharges were seen.



