CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 56-year-old man with medically refractory seizures who was admitted to the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit for a differential diagnoses of his events and medication adjustment.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include Tegretol 600 mg twice a day, and zonisamide 100 mg at bedtime.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The recording was reviewed at least once during the 24 hour recording period by an attending physician.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well-formed and modulated low to moderate amplitude 9-10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity is observed over the right anterior temporal region.  During sleep  symmetrical sleep spindles, vertex waves, K complexes, slow wave sleep  and several epochs of REM sleep are captured.  Occasional independent left greater than right sharp waves with after going slow waves are captured over the anterior temporal regions.  Reverse occurs over F8/T2 and F7/T1 electrodes.  Additionally, there are runs of bifrontal monomorphic theta activity while awake that appears to be more prominent over the right.  Single EKG lead demonstrates a heart rate of approximately 60 beats per minute.
FINDINGS:
Mild slowing in the right anterior temporal region.
Occasional F8/T2 and less frequent F7/T1 sharp waves.
Runs of bifrontal monomorphic theta while awake, right greater than left of uncertain clinical significance.
No seizures.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 22 hour continuous audio video EEG monitoring due to mild right anterior temporal slowing and occasional independent bilateral anterior temporal epileptiform discharges, right greater than left.  Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction likely structural in etiology.  Epileptiform discharges emanating from the anterior temporal regions indicate potential epileptogenic focus.  There were no event buttons  and no seizures captured.  Runs of bifrontal monomorphic theta activity while awake, right and left, is of uncertain clinical significance.



