History: 61 YR OLD FEMALE WITH KNOWN GBM PRESENTS WITH SZ. RIO STATUS.

Medications: Dilantin, Keppra, Phenobarbital

Sedation: None

EEG Type: Continuous (Input. Video), 24 hrs. Portable

Technique: International 10-20 Systems: standard 21 electrodes with T1-T2 electrodes, comatose

Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 14 hours from 08/17113 to 08/18/13. Nursing-Initiated
event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Graphical representation of the EEG was available
at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection
of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by
the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the attending neurologist. Ongoing
raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice dally by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.

# Push button events 0

Description of pushbutton events
None

Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm Is present. The normal anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies Is not
seen. Background consists almost entirely of low voltage Irregular 4-7Hz activity. No normal sleep
architecture was present.
Frequent focal sharp waves and polyspike and wave In rhythmic runs with PLEDs at 1Hz and at time are
present in the left hemisphere mainly in the frontal region, with phase reversal and amplitude maximum
at F7fT3. Frequently these occur in runs.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed. During the recording the patient exhibited
very frequent clinical posturing with tonic extension of her upper extremities. The EEG was obscured by
muscle artifact. Ativan was given and after 4mg the pattern appeal$ to improve. However minutes later
even on a versed drip the behavior continued. Vecuronium was given to better assess the EEG. After
the muscle clears at 3uv/mm and 10mm/sec the EEG reveals left frontal rhythmic bursts that at times
appears to evolve lasting up to 20 seconds most consistent with seizures. At times the burst start and
stop without clear evolution. Please note that the record was best reviewed at 3uv/mm and 10sec/mm.
This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral irritability in the left hemisphere maximal in the frontal
region with multiple discharges consistent with multiple frequent electrographic seizures. The episodic
posturing is likely epileptic as II appears to correlate with the discharges seen with Vecuronium. In

