AGE: 58 y.o.
SEX: male
DATE OF STUDY: 09/01/2015 RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Outpatient
EEG TYPE: Routine awake and drowsy EEG #: 15-1273
HISTORY :
58 y.o. male referred for routine EEG for history of TBI and subsequent seizures , who has been seizure-free for years . Of note, patient has functional problems and cannot
go out alone and does not remember the year.
MEDICATIONS :
No current outpatient prescriptions on file; patient was unable to remember
SEDATION : None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) recording using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes was performed utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) . The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.
There is frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing. There is independent right temporal polymorphic slowing.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
1. There are occasional wicket spikes seen over the left temporal region (Tl maximal) .
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with·good cooperation and produces no effect. Of note, the tech notes a possible hesitation 35 seconds into hyperventilation; no EEG electrographic correlate is noted.
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.
EVENTS:
There are no other clinical or electrographic events captured during this study (see above, under "Hyperventilation") .
HEART RATE :
A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake-and-drowsy routine EEG due to:
Frequent left temporal polymorphic slowing
Independent occasional right temporal polymorphic slowing
Possible hesitation noted by the tech during hyperventilation; however, there was no electrographic correlate to this behavior
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal independent cerebral dysfunction, left greater than right, which may be structural in origin.	Of note, wicket waves are a benign variant.	If clinically warranted, a recording with sleep may be helpful.



