CLINICAL HISTORY: 27 year old with cerebral palsy, severe mental retardation, previous shunt, seizure free for 5 years.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG..  The child is in a wheelchair and supported. He is not able to cooperate with testing.  Photic stimulation was completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal.  The normal morphologies in wakefulness are not identified.  There is a background of mixed frequency activity with theta and delta.  The technologist struggles with electrode integrity during this EEG.
Initially, there are prominent sharp waves and spikes noted at the midline including FZ and CZ.  Some of these, in a transverse montage start very close to the midline on the left.  Using referential or other montages, they seem to start at FZ or CZ and then transition to the right and in bipolar montages, there is much more of a field in the right frontocentral region.
As the tech continues trying to fix the electrodes, the patient may have well had an electrographic seizure with buildup of epileptiform activity in the right frontocentral region which differs from the initial pattern.  During this relatively prolonged discharge while the technologist is working with the patient, no clinical changes are noted.  The patient is sitting in a wheelchair, reclining with both hands in a cortical posture.
The seizure seems to be waning at 12:12 when the technologist starts photic stimulation.  Photic stimulation does not significantly active the record, but the patient is moving about a bit more at that time.
The child does not fall asleep.  He moves about spontaneously, looking from the side-to-side with somewhat spastic movements.  These are seen during the section of the record with the prominent epileptiform activity.
HR:    78 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Likely, electrographic seizure of precise unclear onset, but which may have lasted as long as 12 minutes.
Markedly abnormal background.
Absence of the normal anticipated morphologies for an adult of this age.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is diagnostic of a focal mechanism for seizures.  This individual demonstrated subclinical seizures in that there was no change in the behavior and the patient remained interactive during the event.



