CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 34-year-old woman admitted for long-term monitoring due to increased seizure activity.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Lamictal, and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the Long-term EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the background EEG is symmetric and low voltage.  There is a 9 Hz, 20 V posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.   Generous amounts of muscle movement artifact are seen in this record.  In random sleepiness, independent temporal sharp activity was seen in the left and right temporal areas in drowsiness.  The patient had a relatively good quantity of sleep during the monitoring, which is characterized by slow rolling eye movements, mixed frequency, vertex waves, spindles, and K complexes.  A small amount of stage III sleep was also observed by higher amplitude delta activity.
EVENT:  One event occurred on October 1, 2003 around 7:30 PM: The patient was in bed eating something, moving her hands and neck normally.  At 19:32:14, she suddenly put her hand to her chest and began to push the button. At that time, the patient seems to look to the right side aimlessly.  According to the nurse’s note, the patient was crying with some salivation, thrashing in bed, and crying “mommy.”  The episode lasted for about two minutes.  Vital signs remained stable with a heart rate of 96 or 97, before and after the event.  Generous amounts of artifact due to muscle movement obscured the observation of epileptiform activity.  At the end of the episode, the patient fell into a light sleep with occasional independent right and left temporal sharp waves.
HR: 78 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Occasional independent right and left temporal sharp activity in drowsiness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: One episode was recorded during this 48-hour tracing.  Due to generous amounts of movement artifact obscuring the epileptiform activity, continuous long-term monitoring may be able to record more episodes as well as provide further information to reveal focal features.  The independent right and left temporal sharp waves may be a partial mechanism for this patient’s epilepsy.  Continuous long-term monitoring with reduced AED level is recommended.
Long-Term Monitoring 10/2/03 at 08:04:50 to 10/3/03-10/4/03 at 11:32:47
CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 34-year-old woman admitted for increased multiple seizures.  History of complex partial epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Lamictal, and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the Long-term EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. From October 5 to October 6 no EEG data is available.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is symmetric and low voltage.  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz, 20 V posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.  Hyperventilation was performed at 11:10:02 to 11:14:17 on October 2, which did not change the EEG background or elicited epileptiform discharges.
On the night of October 2 to October 3, independent temporal sharp activity greater in the left than the right was seen in stage II sleep.  Occasionally, focal slowing was found after the left temporal sharp activity.  Sleeping was characterized by slow rolling eye movements, vertex waves, spindles, and K complexes. On the evening of October 3 to October 4, during stage II sleep, similar independent temporal sharp activity was observed.  The patient had generous amounts of stage II sleep with little or no slow wave sleeping activity.
During the daytime, no epileptiform activity or focal features were recorded.  The patient was awake and moving, with a lot of muscle activity.
No epileptic events were recorded or reported over this three-day long-term monitoring period.
HR: 72 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Independent left greater than right temporal sharp activity, occasionally with left temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Over the last five days using long-term EEG monitoring, we found independent left greater than right temporal sharp activity, occasionally with left temporal focal slowing.    This finding may be partially responsible for the mechanism of epilepsy in this patient.  During the long-term monitoring, we adjusted the patient’s medicine but decreased the dosage of antiepileptic drugs.  Dilantin was held with only one episode being reported by the patient during the three days of EEG monitoring.  Unfortunately, no EEG correlates were seen or changes in the background EEG linked to this episode.




