CLINICAL HISTORY:  carotid stenosis, recent embolic shower. For left carotid endarterectomy

MEDICATIONS:  Sevoflurane, Ancef, propofol, Versed, fentanyl, lidocaine, remifentanil, phenylephrine.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the OR using standard CEA montage with 1-channel EKG.  This is a 3.75 hour EEG.  This was a technically acceptable record with appropriate impedances.  Physician was present in the OR for 90 minutes

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the initial sections of the EEG, the background EEG was continuous.  With the initial administration of fentanyl and propofol, intermittent attenuations of the background were noted, particularly at 10:25, where a burst suppression pattern was noted.  Anesthetic medications were adjusted, and the EEG became continuous by 10:50.  Shifting asymmetries were noted particularly in the posterior quadrants bilaterally and at times the right hemisphere appeared to be a bit slower than the left.

A test clamp was made at 12:20.  No significant focal features were noted with placement of the clamp.  The clamp was removed.  In interval between 12:22 and the procedural clamp at 12:44, anesthetic medications were adjusted and there was some fluctuation in the overall background.  The recording remained continuous with some shifting asymmetries.

The carotid was clamped at 12:44 with an initial placement over the internal carotid and then the common carotid.  Subtle changes began to emerge particularly in the parasagittal double distance section of the record prior to the others, and a shunt was placed and was open by 12:48.  The focal features resolve within minutes and the operative team was informed.

Heart rate recording continued throughout the procedure with the shunt in place.  There was some variability in the appearance of bilateral faster frequency activity or delta, compatible with fluctuation with anesthetic medications.

The carotid was unclamped at 1:51  The EEG was discontinued shortly after this time as patency was confirmed.

Heart rate 60 to 80 bpm.

IMPRESSION/ CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Intraoperative video EEG monitoring was remarkable for the appearance of transient focal features with placement of the internal and common carotid clamp, but with resolution with the utilization of a shunt.



