AGE: 49 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 09/30/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Outpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, Awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1429
HISTORY :
a 49 y.o. Female with a history of HIV and epilepsy in the setting of possible cerebritis, s/p brain biopsy referred for routine EEG as a follow up study.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
lamotrigine (LAMICTAL) 100 mg tablet , Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. This follows the lamictal 25 Mg titration
naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily (with meals) .
acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 325 mg tablet, Take 650 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.
darunavir (PREZISTA) 800 mg Tablet, Take 800 mg by mouth daily. senna-docusate (SENNOSIDES-DOCUSATE SODIUM) 8.6-50 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.
psyllium (METAMUCIL) packet, Take 1 packet by mouth daily. ritonavir (NORVIR) 100 mg capsule, Take	by mouth 2 times daily. emtricitabine-rilpivirine-tenofovir	(COMPLERA) 200-25-300 mg Tablet, Take	by mouth daily.
oxycodone-acetaminophen	(PERCOCET) 5-325 mg per tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 4 hours as needed for Pain.
clonazepam (KLONOPIN) 1 mg tablet, Take 1 mg by mouth 3 times daily.
escitalopram oxalate (LEXAPRO) 20 mg tablet, Take 20 mg by mouth daily.
hydroxyzine (ATARAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth at bedtime.
levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 750 mg tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.
Lidocaine 5 % Cream, Apply twice per day to your head where it hurts
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is continuous and asymmetric.
The left hemisphere is characterized by a fairly well organized mixture of alpha and excess frontal alpha and beta, with a posterior dominant rhythm of 9.5 Hz.
The right hemisphere is characterized by a fairly well organized mixture of theta, alpha, and excess of frontal alpha and beta, with no clear posterior dominant rhythm.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is characterized by further background slowing. There are 1-second runs of spindle-like 12-Hz activity seen both synchronously and asynchronously, parasagittal and frontally, across the hemispheres.
No generalized slowing is present.
There is abundant right posterior temporal polymorphic slowing.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and accentuates the focal slowing in the right posterior temporal region
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 60 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal Awake and asleep routine EEG due to:
Suboptimal background organization
Abundant right posterior temporal polymorphic slowing
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of right posterior temporal cerebral dysfunction superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction . When compared to two prior EEGs in 6/2015, the current study demonstrates marked improvement in the slowing and organization of the right hemisphere.




