REASON FOR STUDY:  Differential and classification of seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 48-year-old man with a past history of drug abuse and head trauma in the 1980s who presents with refractory epilepsy here for differential and classification.
MEDICATIONS:  During this 24 hours the patient's Keppra was held off.  A single dose of 100 mg of Topamax was given and he was on Depakote.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed for 24 hours using 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temporal and EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves were seen frequently in sleep and occasionally in wakefulness at F8/T2 much more frequently than F7/T3.
Focal slowing was seen intermittently and at times very rhythmically at F8/T2 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-50 microvolts.  At times there was also seen at F7/T3.
SEIZURES:  The first complex partial seizure occurred at 11:35 a.m.  Electrographically there appeared to be an onset with rhythmic sharp waves noted at T2 in the theta frequency that increased in amplitude and became more rhythmic as well as increasing frequency spreading throughout the right hemisphere. In about 7 seconds spread to the left temporal lobe followed by the hemisphere then slowly becoming slower in frequency into the delta range and finally being obscured by muscle artifact.  After the event there appears to be diffuse slowing throughout the recording.
Clinically, the patient remains asleep during the entirety of the electrographic seizure but once the electrographic seizure ends, he gets up and starts fumbling with the sheets and stands up and starts fumbling with the cables.  At one point he presses the alarm and when the nurse comes he does not realize that he had pressed the button.  It is not clear if he was aware of any of the events and he was not formally tested at that moment.
Complex partial seizure number 2 occurred at 12:13:32 a.m.  Again, occurs while the patient is asleep.  The EEG reveals a rhythmic T2 sharp wave discharge that increases in amplitude and in frequency to the theta range and becomes more rhythmic as it spreads through the right hemisphere.  About 8 seconds later it starts to spread to the left anterior temporal region out of F7/T3 and then continues to spread to the rest of the hemisphere and seconds later it is obscured by muscle artifact.  The entire seizure lasts 54 seconds.  After the electrographic seizure there is diffuse slowing seen throughout the entire EEG.
Clinically the patient appears to be asleep throughout the electrographic seizures, however, about 6 seconds after the electrographic seizure ends, he wakes, gets up from the bed, and sits up on all 4 extremities, fumbles, and looks around, and jerks back and forth and at times side to side.  About 4 or 5
minutes later he gets out of bed and starts pulling on the cables.  Finally he removes all the cables from his head.  The RN notices this about 10 minutes later and comes into the room where he appears to not remember what happened and thinks that he was just going to the bathroom.  He was not clinically tested either at this point.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to 2 right anterior temporal seizures in addition to bilateral anterior temporal sharp waves seen slightly more prominent on the right anterior temporal region than the left mainly in sleep.
HEART RATE:  84.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures possibly arising from either anterior temporal lobe.  This EEG captured 2 seizures that appeared to arise from the right anterior temporal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the bilateral anterior temporal regions which is nonspecific with regards to the etiology.



