History:	55 Y/O FEMALE WITH PMHX OF PARRY ROMBERG SYNDROME, AND SZS. SZ
STARTED ONCE DIAGNOSED WITH PARRY ROMBERG 30 YRS AGO. WITH
PROGRESSIVE MOTOR IMPAIRMENT.
Medications:	Tegretol, Depakote, Keppra.
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
polymorphic theta activity. No normal frontocentral beta was seen.  At times a PDR reached 7Hz
best seen on the right .  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal in the anterior
temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. There is an associated loss of
faster frequencies over this region.  Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the right
anterior temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent sharp waves
are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F7/T3, C3, much more than T4, F4 and
C4.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  Hr was 72  Please note that there was continuous movement artifact
seen throughout the record which made for a very limited review.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, rhythmic, intermittent, right temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal, anterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild diffuse
Sharp waves, frequent multifocal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  frequent epileptiform discharges in the bilateral temporal
and central region as well as diffuse slowing.  These findings are indicative of a potentially
epileptogenic foci in these regions and along with the diffuse slowing are consistent  with a
diagnosis of multifocal epilepsy. In addition there is  continuous focal slowing in the left
hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural
lesion in this region. Lastly there is  intermittent focal slowing in the right midtemporal region.  This
finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.
conclusions.

