DIAGNOSIS:  Altered mental status.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 57-year-old man with history of cirrhosis admitted for abdominal pain.  He has been unresponsive since 11/21/2012.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include propofol, rifaximin, vancomycin, lactulose.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in ICU using the standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to two T1-T2 electrodes and 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures the patient in a comatose state, sedated state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the comatose/sedated state, there was seen diffuse attenuation of the background with intermittent EKG artifacts.  There was unknown artifact in bilateral frontoparietal regions likely due to a ventilators.  There was seen very low voltage 1.5 Hz delta frequency activity and occasional 3 Hz delta frequency activity of 5-10 microvolt amplitude.  There was seen no spontaneous variability and reactivity on stimulating the patient.  No seizures or epileptiform activity was seen during this recording.  Heart rate was 80-90 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing the patient in a comatose/sedative state due to diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background.  No seizures or epileptiform activity was seen during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing and attenuation of the background are suggestive of severe anoxic encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to severe metabolic or infectious encephalopathy or due to effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  In addition, diffuse attenuation could be seen in bilateral fluid collection in the extra-axial space or the overlying skull.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



