History:	54 year old woman who presents status post cardiac arrest.
Medications:	Versed- being weaned, keppra, Dilantin, Phenobarbital
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 4/22/2015 till 4/23/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is is no PDR or AP gradient.  Patient appears to go through periods of arousals and
quiescence.  During periods of arousals, especially by the end of the recording, the background
consists of a mixture of frequencies (primarily theta).  Periods of quiescence are characterized by
background discontinuity and bursts consisting primarily of alpha/ beta activity with additional theta
activity in the second half of the recording.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
No electrographic seizures are captured.  Occasional left P3/O1 sharp waves and bisynchronous
parietooccipital sharp waves are captured.  Their frequency increases as the recording progresses.
Summary of Findings:
Other, reactive background
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate to severe
Sharp waves, parietooccipital, left and bisynchronous
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 24-hour EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse
background slowing and occasional parietooccipital epileptiform discharges that increase in
frequency as the recording progresses.  Diffuse slowing indicates diffuse cerebral dysfunction that in
this case at least partially related to the medication effect.  Degree of diffuse slowing is overall less
when compared to the prior 24-hour recording epoch - this corresponds to a gradual  decrease in
doses of versed used.  There is focal epileptogenic focus over the bilateral parietocentral regions
(primarily left).  There is clear background reactivity.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team





