History:	31 year old woman who had several seizures in 5/2014.  Large left frontal
meningioma was subsequently found and patient underwent tumor resection.  She
has occasional seizures since then.
Medications:	Tegretol
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha
rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed by a few vertex waves.  Vertex
waves are more pronounced over the left.
Occasional polymorphic delta activity is noted over the left frontotemporal region.  Additional,
moderate amplitude fast activity is present over the bilateral frontocentral regions (breach artifact),
left>right.  A single left frontotemporal sharp transient is captured.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with fair cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving at
multiple flash rates.  A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate <60 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
No stage 2 sleep
Breach artifact, bilateral, frontocentral
Beta, excessive
Sharp transients, one, left frontotemporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, moderate, left frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 28 minute EEG due to occasional moderate left
frontotemporal focal slowing.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  Breach artifact is secondary to the
underlying skull defect.  The presence of a single left frontotemporal sharp transient waveform is of
uncertain clinical significance.  It occurs in the same location as breach artifact and focal slowing.
The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of
epilepsy.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.



