LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  28 minutes.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single lead EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 58-year-old woman who presents with generalized tonic-clonic convulsions.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of moderate amplitude polymorphic 8-9 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eye opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient that is at times unstable.  Additional diffuse polymorphic theta is captured.  Additional excess diffuse beta is observed.  During sleep phase, sleep spindles and K-complexes are observed.  Intermittent, primarily independent, and rarely synchronous bitemporal moderate to high amplitude sharp waves with after slow waves are captured over the anterior temporal regions.  Phase reversal occurs over F7/T1 and F8/T2 electrodes.  Left temporal epileptiform discharges are more present and more frequent.  Additional intermittent polymorphic theta and delta are captured over the anterior temporal regions.  Hyperventilation was performed with good effort and results in symmetrical diffuse background slowing.  Photic stimulation does not result in additional abnormalities.
FINDINGS:
Mild diffuse slowing.
Excess beta.
Independent greater than synchronous bilateral anterior temporal sharp waves with after going slow waves with phase reversal over F7/T1 and F8/T2 electrodes.  No electrographic seizures.  Additionally, intermittent bitemporal mild to moderate focal slowing.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and asleep 28-minute EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, intermittent mild to moderate bilateral anterior temporal slowing, and intermittent left greater than right independent and synchronous bilateral anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse background slowing indicates etiologic and nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal bitemporal slowing and bitemporal epileptiform discharges indicate focal cerebral dysfunction, with increased epileptogenic potential, structural in etiology.  Excess beta could be secondary to medication effect such as benzodiazepines and barbiturates.



