History:	37 yo man with a history of bilateral cranioplasty in august 2013.  Patient has a
generalized convulsion today.
Medications:	Lorazepam, Dilantin, Phenobarbital
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Description:
There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  During
maximal arousal, the background on the right consists of polymorphic 9-9.5 Hz PDR with weak AP
gradient.  Additional polymorphic theta activity is observed over the right hemisphere and focal
continuous delta activity over the right frontal region.  There is no clear AP gradient or PDR on the
left.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.
Diffuse excess beta activity is noted.  Sleep spindles and K-complexes are noted.  Sleep
Occasional left temporocentral sharp waves are noted.  They are have a broad field.  Maximal
scalp negativity is over T1/T3/T5/C3 electrodes.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right frontal
Sharp waves, occasional, left temporal, mid
Asymmetry, sleep architecture, better formed over the right
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, continuous moderate
left hemispheric slowing, continuous moderate right frontal slowing and occasional left
centrotemporal epileptiform discharges. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing in the right frontal region
and left hemisphere indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.  There is a
potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the left temporocentral region.


