History:	27 year old man who presented with generalized status epilepticus, currently
remains intubated and poorly responsive.
Medications:	CEFTRIAXONE, LORAZEPAM DRIP stopped on 12/28/2013 AM; Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 7 am on 12/28/2013 till 7 am on
12/29/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by attending
neurologist.  The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Early in the recording the background activity is
characterized by diffuse low voltage delta activity with overriding diffuse 12-14 Hz activity with
absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  As the recording progresses,
theta activity becomes more prominent during the periods of arousals/ with stimulation.  No normal
sleep architecture is present, however, periods of quiescence are evident.
No focal slowing is present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.
There was reactivity to auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, severe early on; improves to moderate slowing as the recording
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 19 hour continuous video EEG because of moderate-to-severe diffuse
background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific
indicators of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, that, in this patient, at least partially
related to the medication effect.  As the recording progresses, the degree of diffuse slowing lessens.
This is likely related to discontinuation of continuous Ativan infusion early in the recording epoch.
Excess beta activity could be secondary to the medications, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.  No electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the primary


