CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 74-year-old female with history of shortness of breath for 2 weeks, hypertension, stroke, anemia, COPD, asthma and seizure disorders.  This patient was admitted with episode of unresponsiveness and staring spells.
MEDICATIONS:  Coumadin, valsartan, aspirin, famotidine, Plavix, isosorbide, insulin.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed in the lab using the standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness through drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 7.5-8 Hz in frequencies seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 5-6 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness which is distributed symmetrically.  There is presence of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of posterior dominant rhythm and slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and did not result in a driving response.  Heart rate was 70 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background with theta seen in wakefulness.
Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.  There is no epileptiform activity or electrographic seizures.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to toxic metabolic, hypoxic or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Generalized clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat sleep-deprived EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



