AGE: 40 y.o.
SEX : female
DATE OF STUDY : 12/03/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient
EEG TYPE: 60 min - 3 hr, drowsy and asleep EEG #: 15-1762
HISTORY:
40 y .o. female with a history of epilepsy and orthostatic hypotension referred for routine EEG following 2 tonoclonic seizures in August of 2015.	EEG at that time was abnormal.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
oxycodone-acetaminophen (PERCOCET) 5-325 mg per tablet , Take 1 tablet by mouth every 4 hours as needed for Pain.
phenytoin (DILANTIN KAPSEAL) 100 mg ER capsule, Take 2 capsules by mouth at bedtime.
divalproex (DEPAKOTE) 250 mg EC tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth
at bedtime . Take 1 tablet at bedtime for - 2 weeks , then increase to 2 tablets at bedtime
ropinirole (REQUIP) 0.25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth at bedtime .
Meclizine (ANTIVERT) 12.5 mg tablet, Take 12.5 mg by mouth 3 times daily as needed.
ibuprofen (ADVIL;MOTRIN) 100 mg/5 mL suspension, Take	by mouth
every 4 hours as needed .
SYNTHROID 100 mcg tablet, take 1 tablet by mouth once daily No current facility-administered medications for this visit.
SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a	technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient. Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.7 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles ·and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.	No focal slowing is present. EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces no effect.
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.	No photoparoxysmal activity was identified
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is a normal one hour, awake, drowsy and asleep routine EEG. There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This is a normal awake and asleep	one hour routine EEG.
A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.	This study may be compared to previous study which was recorded immediately after the patient' s loss of consciousness. No generalized spike and wave activity was identified today



