History:	25 YO FEMALE WITH H/O CHILDHOOD SEIZURES.  DEVELOPED DELAYED,
LAST SZ OVER 1 YR AGO.

PRESENTS FOR LTM.
Medications:	DILANTIN, VIMPAT
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 18.5 hours from 06/29/2015 to 06/30/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.    Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
none
Description:
Waking background is characterized by an absence of the alpha rhythm.  Background activity is
predominantly irregular 50-75uV, 6-7Hz activity, with absence of the normal anterior to posterior
gradient of frequencies.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and sleep
spindles and K complexes appear.  There is asynchrony of sleep spindles and vertex waves.
Patient rapidly transitions between wakefulness and sleep.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 72
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 18.5 hour awake and asleep EEG due to mild diffuse slowing and
asynchrony of sleep architecture. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Asynchrony of sleep architecture suggests
abnormalities in the thalamocortical connections.






