History:	58 YR FEMALE LEFT MCA CVA, SDH, , S/P RESECTION 6/14. FOR CRANIAL

REPAIR. HAD RECURRENT SZS. NOW FOR FOLLOW UP EEG. PT WAS DZ 3/14

WITH AML WAS IN PROCESS OF BONE MARROW/ STEM CELL TX.. PER EMS PT

BLOOD SUGAR HIGH THIS AM 378 ON LAST CHECK.

Medications:	KEPPRA, DILANTIN,

Sedation:	None

EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy

Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG

electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic

Description:

The posterior dominant rhythm at best reaches 6Hz.  Background activity was characterized by

diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior

gradient of frequencies.  Background consists almost entirely of irregular 4-7Hz activity.  Diffuse,

frontally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology are present throughout the recording.

These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag and are seen best over the right

hemisphere.  No normal sleep architecture was present despite prolonged clinical sleep.

Continuous polymorphic delta activity and attenuation of faster frequencies is present over the left

hemisphere maximal in the frontotemporal region.  No epileptiform discharges are present.

Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)

does not produce any effect.  There was reactivity to auditory and tactile stimuli.  HR 110

Summary of Findings:

Diffuse slowing, polymorphic diffuse

Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, maximal frontotemporal.

Triphasic waves

Interpretation:

This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of continuous focal slowing in the left

hemisphere maximal over the frontotemporal region. This finding is indicative of a focal structural

lesion in this region. In addition there are  frequent frontally-maximal triphasic waves and severe

diffuse background slowing.  These findings are indicative of a severe diffuse encephalopathy,

which is etiologically nonspecific, but suggestive of a metabolic origin.




