CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 40-year-old, right-handed female with history of hypertension and hyperlipidemia, who presents with new onset seizure like activity.
MEDICATIONS:  Folic acid, pravastatin, hydrochlorothiazide, and metoprolol.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm was 8.5-9 Hz in frequency, seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontal central beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically. Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm and slowing of the background activity and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  There were intermittent bursts of left anterior and mid temporal slowing at F7/T3 in wakefulness consisting of 5-6 Hz theta activity.  There were also 2 bursts of diffuse frontally predominant 3Hz sharply contoured delta activity lasting 1-3 seconds without evolution or clinical changes noted during photic stimulation, and wakefulness.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and result in no driving response.  Hyperventilation was performed and resulted in a symmetric slowing of the background activity.  Heart rate was 60-70 beats per minutes and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to left temporal slowing seen during wakefulness and diffuse frontally predominant 3 Hz sharply contoured delta activity with no evolution.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to underlying structural abnormality in the left hemisphere or left temporal dysfunction.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  The presence of diffuse sharply contoured delta activity could be addressed by a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or continuous bedside EEG monitoring.  No seizures were captured during this recording, but this does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.



