CLINICAL HISTORY:  Patient is a 41-year-old female with a history of multiple sclerosis and recurrent seizures.  The purpose of the long-term recording was to evaluate for possible recurrent seizures.  Her seizure semiology consists of generalized tonic-clonic movements with excessive salivation followed by unresponsiveness.  These events varied from 10-20 minutes in duration.  She also has intermittent leg spasms from multiple sclerosis that are of different semiology than these events.
MEDICATIONS: Keppra, baclofen, levothyroxine, nitrofurantoin, Percocet, Oxycontin, Xanax.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous 24-hour bedside EEG monitoring was performed on this patient.  The EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement with 1 channel EKG monitoring.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  During the recording epic, there were multiple stages of wakefulness and sleep capturing including wakefulness, drowsiness, and stage II-III sleep.  Activation procedures were not performed.
During the course of the recording, the heart rate was variable from 80-100 beats.  As the record opens, there is a symmetric posterior dominant rhythm of approximately 10-11 hertz that is reactive eye opening.  There is a small amount of frontocentral beta activity that was identified and is symmetrically distributed.  Throughout the recording, there are intermittent epic of stage I sleep characterized by reduction of the speed in the posterior dominant rhythm.
Central theta activity decrease in eye movements.  There is the appearance of stage II sleep that is heralded by symmetric vertex activity and were 14 hertz sleep spindles.  Throughout the recording, there is intermittent bursts of delta activity that correspond clinically on the video with episodes of clinical sleep. These appear consistent without the stage II or stage III sleep.  However, in between these events, there are intermittent epics in which there is rhythmic 2-3 hertz frontal delta activity that may either reflect sleep, but could also represent frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA).  Activation procedures were not performed during the recording.  At 9:25 a.m., there was a single patient denoted event.  On the video, the patient is seen to be sitting in the chair, having a conversation with the nurse and another person in the room.  At this point in time, she appears to be drowsy and at times has her eyes closed.  The background shows diffuse bi-hemispheric slowing in the theta and delta range and again this maybe consistent with clinical sleep.  There is no ictal discharges. Throughout the recording, there were no seizures detected. There were no interictal epileptiform abnormalities identified. Heart rate varied from 60-80.
IMPRESSION:  In summary, this is a continuous long-term monitoring bedside recording which demonstrates excessive amounts of clinical and electrographic sleep as well as episodes of intermittent rhythmic delta activity that may be consistent with FIRDA.  The presence of excessive clinical sleep may be suggestive of excessive sedating medications or sleep deprivation.  The presence of FIRDA suggests a lesion in the deep subcortical frontal white matter or 3rd ventricle and has been at times associated with increased intracranial pressure.  There were no ictal or interictal discharges identified in this record.  Further clinical correlation and monitoring is suggested.



