STUDY DATE:  01/14/2013 to 01/15/2013, for a total of 18 hours.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 59-year-old man with CAD, schizophrenia, COPD, and cocaine use who presents with recurrent change in mental status, ingestion of Vick's Vaporub, and recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Ativan, phenobarbital, propofol, dopamine.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software and nurses' notes were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some electrode artifact in the ear (A,- A2) electrodes halfway through the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a background with no clear posterior dominant rhythm and mainly diffuse beta continuously seen.  There is no normal sleep architecture and no activating procedures were performed.  Overall there appears to be an overriding beta and background slowing underneath the diffuse beta.
Abnormal discharges:  Focal slow waves seen frequently over F7/T3 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 40 microvolts.
Seizures:  The patient has recurrent electrographic seizures that appear to have an unclear onset but mainly seem to develop from a beta discharge in the prefrontal region, mainly at FP1, which quickly spreads to the contralateral hemisphere and is obscured by muscle artifact.  Afterward there is diffuse delta that remains slightly more prominently over the left hemisphere until it dissipates.  The average seizure lasts about 2 minutes.  During the first recording, he was having about 5 or 6 seizures per hour.  As the time goes along, it decreases to 5, then 4 seizures per hour.  The last hour that they stopped, from 1:00 to 2:00 a.m., he has about 3 seizures.  After that there are no more seizures seen.  During the seizures, it is hard to clearly see any clear correlation in the video, but there appears to be some muscle artifact seen, noted in the EEG as described above, consistent with an EEG clinical correlate.  After 2:00 a.m., no seizures were seen.  Some burst suppression is noted, but mainly the same background remains.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to multiple recurrent seizures of unclear onset, but possibly left prefrontal region with additional left anterior temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of status epilepticus with multiple seizures possibly arising from the left prefrontal region, which appears to have stopped by 2:00 a.m.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left anterior temporal region, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  Lastly, the diffuse beta may be due, at least in part, to medication effect.  There is underlying generalized slowing which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  Please note that the findings on this EEG were communicated to the primary team throughout the night at intervals.



