CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 29-year-old male with frequent daily seizures, difficulty walking, cerebellar ataxia, peripheral neuropathy, vagal nerve stimulator.

MEDICATIONS:  Phenytoin, Keppra, Trileptal, Klonopin, Phenobarbital, and others.

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside and the EEG monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The mother noted 1 seizure on the morning of the 22nd characterized by a subtle head drop.  She did not push the button and this behavior is difficult to discern from the patient's baseline.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is abnormal with a somewhat slow background and a suggestion of a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm seen on occasion.  The overall background is quite variable.  Some sections are richer in beta than others.  Some sections demonstrate high amplitudes, both spike and wave activity typically occurring in birth, others demonstrate lower voltage, more subtle sharp waves.

A practice push button was noted at 9:47 when the patient was with the mother and the nurse.  This is one of the few sections of the record devoid of epileptiform activity.

The sleep record demonstrates a relatively slow featureless pattern with high amplitude spike and wave activity mostly from the left hemisphere but also sometimes at T4 or C4.  There are some morphologies suggestive of normal sleep including spindles.

At 8:20 in the morning, there was a burst of high amplitude delta with some polyspike activity.  This does not have a strong epileptiform appearance of some of the other discharges but may correlate with the head dropping discharge that the mother described.  It does, however, look more like a transition to drowsiness in that the patient seems to be drifting off to sleep, both before and after.  There is another burst at 8:31 while he is eating with a burst of slow spike and wave activity lasting 3 seconds.  It is not clear if this is the clinical event that the mother noted.

Heart rate 96 beats per minute.




