REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 32-year-old woman with a history of seizures since age 12 who had recent seizure recurrence after missing her medications and using cocaine.  The patient has a prior history of alcohol use and physical abuse.  She comes to the hospital due to recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Heparin, Depakote, Keppra, folic acid, Lexapro.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG for 25 minutes was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
Technical difficulties:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is a normal frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures produced no abnormal discharges which included  hyperventilation and photic stimulation.  This was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.
Abnormal discharges:
Small frontal predominant spike and wave discharges are seen frequently throughout the recording.  They appear to be mainly symmetrical, however, the majority appears to have a left frontal predominance and some of them rarely are right frontal predominant, and appear to be only in single transients, but could fit frequency of 4.5 Hz.
In addition, there is a single burst of generalized spike and wave discharge again symmetrically frontally predominant that is followed by 4 Hz spike and waves which in 2 milliseconds become generalized paroxysmal fast activity lasting for 3 seconds and reaching 13-14 Hz which suddenly stop and go back into a 4 Hz generalized spike and wave.  There is no clinical correlate to this in the video.
Seizures:  None.
Heart rate:  66.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to generalized spike and waves and a burst of GPFA.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of epilepsy.  The bursts described above could be seen in a generalized epilepsy.  However, some of the asymmetry may suggest single frontal focus with quick secondary bilateral synchrony.  Clinical correlation is indicated.



