History:	42 year old woman with a history of seizures, now presents in status epilepticus.
Medications:	 DEPAKOTE, PHENOBARBITAL, DILANTIN, ATIVAN 2 mg for agitation
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 09/04/2015 till 09/05/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  During wakefulness, the background consists of polymorphic
diffuse theta activity.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Sleep spindles and K-complexes are
captured.  Sleep spindles are better formed over the right hemisphere.
Additional, somewhat rhythmic delta activity is seen over the left hemisphere, especially left
temporal region.  Continuous 1 Hz left temporal PLEDs seen in prior days continue.  Maximal scalp
negativity occurs over the T3 lead.  No electrographic seizures are captured.
Various EEG leads demonstrate artifact throughout the recording.
Summary of Findings:
No electrographic seizures
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), continuous, left temporal, 1Hz
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, especially over the left region
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour EEG due to (1) moderate diffuse slowing; (2) continuous
focal left hemispheric slowing, especially over the left temporal region, and (3) 1 Hz left temporal
periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges.  There is a focal structural cerebral abnormality over
the left, especially left temporal region, that has increased epileptogenic potential.  Diffuse slowing
is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  No
electrographic seizures are present.





