History:	47 YEAR OLD FEMALE S/P RUPTURED LEFT MCA ANEURYSM
Medications:	Propofol, Nicardipine, Keppra
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is the appearance of a posterior dominant 7-8Hz rhythm over the right occiput that is more
stable than on previous days.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage delta
and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  There
is an obvious amplitude asymmetry between the left and right hemisphere with attenuation and
suppression seen over the left hemisphere.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present but the left hemisphere amplitudes are markedly attenuated compared
to the right.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  At several points there is bed rocking
artifact resulting from automated pulmonary toilet.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, continuous, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG because of diffuse background slowing, absent alpha
rhythm, and focal left hemisphere attenuation.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific
indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  The brief epochs of improved background
activity may represent improved perfusion or blood flow. Clinical correlation is suggested.  No
clinical or electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.


