CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 55-year-old male with past medical history of right pericardial effusion, prostate cancer with prostatectomy, atrial fibrillation, who presents after a fall and head trauma at work.  At emergency department, had weakness, seizures.  Neuroimaging showed occipital parietal epidural hematoma, and scalp swelling.  Patient also had subdural hematoma, epidural hematoma, and subarachnoid hemorrhage.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, famotidine, Zofran, midazolam as needed, Dilaudid as needed.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background activity is characterized by diffuse slowing consisting of theta activity with a frequency of 5-7 Hz intermixed.  Delta activity with a frequency of 3-3.5 Hz.  There is also occasional alpha activity with a frequency of 10-12 Hz.  There was right hemispheric slowing and attenuation throughout this study.  Eye blink artifact was noted occasionally, asymmetric with higher voltage on the left side.  There were occasional asymmetric sleep spindles noted with higher amplitude on the left hemisphere.  There were spontaneous variability and reactivity on the stimulation by EEG take.  No epileptiform activity or seizures were seen in this study.  Heart rate was 60-65 beats per minute with low amplitude QRS complexes.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing patients in a sedated, lethargic state due to diffuse slowing of the background activity with hemispheric asymmetry characterized by right hemispheric attenuation and a slowing.  No epileptiform activity or seizures were seen in this study.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing and excessive theta are suggestive of metabolic, hypoxic, anoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of medications with bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  Right hemispheric attenuation and slowing could be seen in the structural lesions of the underlying cerebral cortex and in this case, extra-axial fluid collection and epidural hematoma.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a long-term EEG monitoring may be helpful.



