CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 68-year-old man admitted with acute left MCA territory stroke, subsequently found to have bilateral and general carotid artery stenosis.  The patient is scheduled to go to the operating room on 02/08/2013, for left carotid endarterectomy.
MEDICATIONS:  Heparin drip.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.  The recording was performed according to the standard 10/20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.
LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  21 minutes.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower wave forms over the left hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere consistent with well formed and modulated moderate amplitude 8-1/2 to 9 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient observed over the right hemisphere.  Over the left hemisphere the posterior dominant rhythm is unstable.  It reaches approximately 8-1/2 Hz and AP gradient over the left hemisphere is weak.  During drowsiness the background voltage amplitudes decrease and vertex waves observed.  Vertex waves are better formed over the right hemisphere.  There is continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity observed over the left hemisphere, most pronounced over the left temporal region.  Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation results in occipital driving at multiple flash frequencies over the right hemisphere only.  A regular heart rate is noted on the single EKG lead.
FINDINGS:
Continuous mild to moderate left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the left temporal region.
Asymmetry of sleep architecture with sleep architecture better observed over the right hemisphere.
Asymmetry of photic driving with photic driving observed only over the right hemisphere.
IMPRESSION:  This is a abnormal awake and drowsy 21 minute EEG due to continuous mild to moderate left hemispheric slowing, that is most pronounced over the left temporal region.  This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction and in this patient is consistent with his history of recent left MCA territory infarct.



