History:	73 YR MALE WITH CHANGE IN MS. APHASIC,  PMHX: HTN, DM, HLD, CHF.
FOUND TO BE HAVING SZS. MRI NEG
Medications:	Keppra, Dilantin
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic,
obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours  Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Minimal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  There are at least 4 electrographic seizures seen (e.g., 12:54:09,
3:33:02) that emanate from the left frontotemporal region. These last for approximately 60-90
seconds.  There is no obvious clinical correlate to these events although for some the patient is
seen to move randomly in the bed.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, present, left frontotemporal, at least 4 over 24 hours
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour continuous video-EEG because of diffuse background slowing and
absent alpha rhythm and 4 left hemispheric electrographic seizures.   These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of  diffuse cerebral dysfunction as well as a focal electrographic
seizures from the left fronto-temporal region.  These findings were communicated to the primary team.




