CONDITIONS OF RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to a standard 10/20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead. Both hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.

HISTORY:  The patient is a 42-year-old woman with a history of nocturnal convulsions since 1986. Her last seizure was in 2010. The patient self discontinued antiepileptic medications. She is here to be evaluated for her driver's license.

MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include simvastatin and a sleeping pill, no antiepileptic medications.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  The posterior dominant rhythm consisted of a well formed and modulated 10 Hz moderate amplitude alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening. There is an anterior to posterior frequency posterior gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly. Hyperventilation is performed with fair effort and produces no significant change in the background. Photic stimulation results in no change in the background. During the recording, the patient becomes drowsy, but stage II sleep is never achieved. Occasional polymorphic theta and delta activity are captured over the right mid temporal region. A single burst of generalized frontally predominant 4 Hz spike with after going slow wave activity is captured. This burst lasts approximately 1.25 seconds. It appears that there is a slight right sided lead into this burst. Several other brief of 0.5 seconds bursts of similar activity are captured.

FINDINGS:
1. Intermittent mild right mid temporal slowing.
2. 4 Hz generalized spike and wave activity, rare.
.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 25 minute EEG due to intermittent mild right mid temporal slowing as well as 4 Hz generalized spike and wave discharges. Right temporal slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific cerebral dysfunction over the right temporal region, that could be structural in etiology. Generalized epileptiform discharges are suggestive of generalized mechanism of epilepsy, however, secondary bisynchrony cannot be excluded. When compared to the EEGs from 2010 and 2005, generalized spike and wave are still present.


