History:	38 YR MALE SEVERELY MENTALLY RETARDED, CEREBRAL PALSY, WITH
SEIZURES SINCE BIRTH.  NO COMPLICATIONS AT BIRTH.  EVERY 1-2 DYS
STARING EVENTS.  HAS BEEN YRS SINCE HE HAS HAD GTC
Medications:	PRIMIDONE, TEGRETOL, WARFARIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by an alpha rhythm which at best reaches 8.5-9Hz and
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Background activity is predominantly irregular 50-
75uV, 6-7Hz activity, with absence of the normal anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.
Intermittent diffuse, frontally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology are present
throughout the recording.  These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag.  During
drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the
record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  A single large field bifrontal
maximal sharply countoured waveform was seen.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  Hr was 90
Summary of Findings:
Triphasic waves, intermittent diffuse
Diffuse slowing, rhythmic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of intermittent frontally-maximal
triphasic waves and moderate diffuse background slowing.  These findings are indicative of a
severe diffuse encephalopathy, which is etiologically nonspecific, but suggestive of a metabolic
origin.  The single sharply contoured waveform is of unclear clinical significance.  No clinical or
electrographic seizures are present.







