History:	59 YR FEMALE WITH CC SEIZURE.  PMHX: RIGHT MC CLIPPING 1988 (SKULL
DEFECT RIGHT FRONTAL/ CENTRAL/ TEMPORAL.   HTN, SEIZURES  FYI PT
WITH LOOSE BOWELS ALL DY
Medications:	DEPAKOTE
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  Occasional brief bursts of high amplitude, 2-4Hz
rhythmic bifrontal maximal slow waves occur throughout the recording, increasing in frequency
during drowsiness. Some of this burst have some sharply countoured waveforms.  During drowsiness,
the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and
the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Nearly continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the
left midtemporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Occasional focal spike-
and-wave discharges and sharp waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  Hr was 60
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, intermittent, right temporal, anterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive, mild diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, left temporal, mid
FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, bilateral frontal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, right temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of nearly continuous focal slowing  and
intermittent sharp waves in the right anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal
cerebral dysfunction and irritability in this region, likely structural in origin and potentially
epileptogenic in nature.  In addition there is intermittent focal slowing in the left midtemporal
region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.
Lastly there is  frequent bursts of frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA) and excess theta
in wakefulness.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction.F8/T4.






