History:	29 year old male a history of seizures since childhood.
Medications:	Dilantin, ?Topamax
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 11.5Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Continuous underriding polymorphic delta activity is present in the left frontotemporal region.
When the patient falls asleep, the degree of left hemispheric delta activity increases and it at times
occurs in 15-30 seconds rhythmic runs, involving the  entire left hemisphere.  Frequent left anterior
temporal/ frontal sharp waves are captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over Fp1 and F7/T1
electrodes.  Occasionally these sharp waves appear bifrontal, but the amplitude of right
hemispheric sharp waves is lower.  Additionally, during sleep, occasionally left hemispheric sharp
waves occur in brief irregular runs with repetition rate of ~2-3 Hz.  Frequency of epileptiform
discharges increases during drowsiness and sleep.  No electrographic seizures are captured.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, intermittent, left temporal, anterior, F7/T1, at time with a broad field
Sharp waves, occasional, right frontal, suspect secondary bisynchrony from the left frontal focus
No electrographic seizures
Focal slowing, rhythmic, occasional, moderate, left frontotemporal
Sharp waves, intermittent, left frontal, at Fp1
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left frontotemporal, mild-to-moderate sleep spindles and K complexes appear.abnormalities.
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 1 hour awake and asleep EEG due to continuous mild-to-moderate left
frontotemporal slowing and intermittent independent left frontal and left anterior temporal and,
occasional, right frontal epileptiform discharges. There is a potentially epileptogenic focal
structural lesion in the left frontotemporal region.  Suspect that right frontal epileptiform discharges
are representative of secondary bisynchrony from the right frontal focus rather than an independent
right frontal potentially epileptogenic focus.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.	I have personally reviewed this

