History:	56 year old female wth resolving mental status alterations.
Medications:
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, that at best reaches 8.5Hz alpha rhythm, which
attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present,
maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  A small amount of diffuse, but intermittent, 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz
activity is present throughout the recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness,
the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and
the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Rare, intermittent, polymorphic theta activity is present in the left midtemporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There were no clinical episodes
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, rare, left temporal, mid
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG awake and drowsy because of rare focal slowing in the
left midtemporal region and very mild diffuse background slowing. These findings are indicative of
focal and diffuse cerebral dysfunction respectively and are etiologically non-specific.  No clinical or
electrographic seizures are present. Overall the record has improved significantly since the initial
day of monitoring.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





