CLINICAL HISTORY:  69 year old man with history of a right MCA stroke as well as AFib, CHF, and hyperlipidemia that presents with an episode of possible syncope with shaking of the head for a few minutes.
MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin, Lipitor, Tramadol, Warfarin, Digoxin, Amlodipine, Metoprolol.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizure.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which can be best visualized over the left hemisphere.  There is also frontocentral beta that can only be seen over the left hemisphere.  Activating procedures including photic stimulation produced no abnormal discharges.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness, stage 1 and stage 2 sleep.  Some of the sleep architecture was best observed only over the left hemisphere.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen frequently at F8/T4.
Focal slow waves were seen continuously over the right hemisphere, maximal at F8/T4.  There was also loss of faster frequencies over this hemisphere.
Focal slow waves seen intermittently at F7/T3.
HR:   80 bpm and irregular
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Right anterior temporal sharp waves and slowing with loss of faster frequencies.
Intermittent left anterior temporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy, with seizures likely arising from the right anterior temporal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal structural dysfunction in the right hemisphere, maximal in the right anterior temporal region, which is consistent with the known stroke.  Lastly, there is some evidence of left anterior temporal slowing, focal cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures were seen.



