CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 50-year-old woman with a seizure disorder for three years, now with left-sided twinge, headache, and burning sensation.  She was diagnosed with seizures in 1996.  Past medical history: hypertension x 10 years.
MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Keppra, Tegretol and Percocet.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the Long-Term EEG Monitoring Unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz, 20 V posterior dominant rhythm along with frontocentral beta activity.  The background EEG is symmetric without focal features. Drowsiness was characterized by attenuation of the alpha rhythm.  Deeper stages of sleep were fragmented.
Multiple spells were recorded during this 72-hour long-term monitoring:
EVENT #1 8/2/03 at 22:45: The patient pushed the button and reported a burning feeling on the left side of her head, neck, arm, and leg.  At that time, she was awake, alert, and oriented.  No epileptiform discharges were identified.  At 10:50 PM, the nurse assisted the patient back to bed.  The patient became unsteady but did not fall.  She stated that she felt dizzy. She became restless, stared blankly, and spontaneously moved all her limbs.  No EEG correlates were seen.  Ativan at 2 mm was administered to the patient and at 11:30 the patient asked what had happened.  She was tearful at this time, but was awake, alert, and oriented and drank some water.  Again, no EEG changes were identified.
The patient fell asleep at 12:00, but frequently awoke and sat up about every hour.
EVENT #2 8/3/03 at 6:15 AM: The patient pushed the button and the nurse entered the room.  She did not answer questions, but was moving all her limbs.  As seen on the video tape, when the nurse asked the patient if she could hear her, she did not answer but shook her head.  She looked at the nurse for a moment, but then turned her head away. No EEG correlates were seen.  The spell lasted for about 30 minutes and at 6:45 AM, she was awake, alert, and oriented.  She stated that she felt left-sided pain and had a metallic taste in her mouth, as per the nurse’s note.  No epileptiform features seen.
THIRD EVENT 8/3/03 at 3:55 PM: The patient reported a hot or burning feeling and weakness on the left side.  This lasted for about 25 minutes, as per the nurse’s notes.  During the spell, the patient wanted to walk as her fiancé was at the bedside. The EEG recording for this period was not available.
FOURTH EVENT 8/4/05 at 7:30 AM: Push button event. The patient became non-verbal and unresponsive, but could move both legs and the right arm.  Again, no EEG changes were identified.
HR:  84 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Normal long-term EEG monitoring.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: In comparison to this patient’s previous EEG done on August 1, 2003, which was normal, during this long-term monitoring, the patient had multiple events including impairment of speech, impairment of memory, as well as prolonged spells without EEG correlates.  Of the Events available for review, the EEG was interpretable for all but one of the events.  The absence of epileptiform discharges would be an unusual pattern for seizures. Normal EEG does not exclude the possibility of epilepsy. Behaviors which occurred prior to this study may have different features than those described above.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or sleep deprivation prior to the recording may be useful.




