CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 53-year-old woman with a history of metastatic cancer, status post right craniectomy, the patient was admitted on the 27th after repetitive seizures.  She was having difficulty with her seizure medication due to nausea and had multiple seizures on the 27th.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, Dilantin, Keppra, Ativan, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not possible.  This is a technically somewhat challenging record for the patient with a great deal of involuntary movements and muscle artifact.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The EEG demonstrates a medium amplitude pattern on the left with a great deal of muscle movement artifact.  There is also a fair amount of beta and the overall pattern on the left is generally slow without a well-defined alpha rhythm.  On the right, there is a high amplitude pattern, compatible with breach rhythm.  There is arrhythmic delta activity noted throughout the right hemisphere, particularly in the posterior quadrant.  There is a high amplitude sharp waves noted at T6 with generous field of spread and the sharp waves can be bifid.  The technologist notes little in the way of involuntary movements during the record.  Toward the close of the record, a posterior dominant rhythm of 5 to 6 hertz can be identified on the left.  The patient is somewhat confused, but responsive throughout.
The epileptiform activity from the right posterior temporal region is present throughout the record, and is an ongoing, repetitive periodic complex, but it does not evolved to a sustained seizure.
Heart rate 86 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
A nearly continuous, irregular, chaotic right posterior temporal sharp wave-periodic complex without definitive frequency evolution.
Arrhythmic delta activity from the right hemisphere.
Significant slowing from the left.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is a very irritative pattern, but without definitive sustained seizures.  There is more of a focal epileptiform process, similar to an epilepsy partialis continua pattern.  The bihemispheric slowing may be correlated with imaging and clinical history for this individual who
received multiple sedative hypnotic medications and has also received radiation and has underlying cancer.




