REASON FOR STUDY: Seizures
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 61-year-old man with subdural on the right and craniotomy with EEG due to left-sided twitching.
MEDICATIONS:  At the beginning, the patient was on Dilantin and phenobarbital as well as propofol, and during the last day propofol was stopped and Versed was added.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed for 60 hours using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection software and nurses' notes, patient events, as well as primary team's observations were used to review the EEG.  Information was given back to the primary team as it was reviewed multiple times during the day.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm which is an absent posterior dominant rhythm or normal frontocentral beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture and no activating procedures were performed.  Overall, the background is diffusely attenuated and lacks normal cerebral activity.  Intermixed with this diffusely attenuated and suppressed background, there will be bursts of sharply contoured theta occurring over only the right hemisphere with intermixed sharp waves and spikes that will be described in the "abnormal discharges," that would last anywhere from 5 to 20 seconds.  There appears to be no reactivity to the EEG; however, during the first 10 hours there appears to be some muscle activity seen in the EEG which later was not noticed with the rest of the recording.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal sharp waves seen over the right hemisphere, maximal at T4, C4, and F8, seen frequently in the bursts.
Severe generalized slowing.
Seizures:  Throughout the entire recording, during the bursts of spike activity, clinically the primary team reported that they noticed intermittent facial twitching with each of the bursts.  These would be irregular and intermittent, at times getting worse and sometimes improving; however, there was not a clear EMG correlate on every single one of these twitches on the EEG.  There appears to be some possible electrical correlate, but it is not clear, throughout the recording.  Based on these clinical findings, the primary team would make decisions to continue sedation and antiepileptic drugs.  This occurred almost continuously throughout the recording.  On 08/11/2013, at around 4:40 p.m., facial twitches continued to be noted, and around 5:22 p.m., propofol was stopped and a Versed drip was started, which was later slowly increased up to 14 mg per hour.  During this time, the EEG remained similar with intermittent bursts, but they appeared to be slightly more attenuated and less frequent; however, still occurring.  Around 8:30 the bursts became extremely infrequent, and by 9:20 the bursts appeared to have stopped and disappeared.  The primary team was made aware of these changes, and at that time unfortunately the patient coded and there were multiple artifacts throughout the recording.  After this time, there was no clear electrical activity seen on the EEG, and the EEG was discontinued around 12:00 midnight.
Heart rate 72. Please note that the heart rate became extremely bradycardic and disappeared for a period of time while the patient was coded.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to status epilepticus with seizures arising from the right hemisphere and marked generalized cerebral dysfunction. At the end of the record no electrical activity was seen.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of status epilepticus with multiple seizures arising through the right hemisphere.  In addition, there is evidence of marked generalized severe cerebral dysfunction, which may be, at least in part, due to medication effect. During the last part of the record, no normal electro-cerebral activity were seen. The findings seen and reported throughout this entire recording were communicated to the primary team as they occurred with multiple reviews of the EEG over the 60 hours.



