CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 24-year-old, right-handed male status-post gun shot wound admitted with accelerating seizures. This was followed by a postictal obtundation. The patient had multiple events during this 24-hour period.
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP: Much of the record includes drowsiness with generous background beta. In comparison to previous days, there is less in the way of beta frequency activity.  Stage II sleep includes vertex waves and spindles. In drowsiness, there is occasional focal slowing from the right posterior quadrant.
There are multiple practice push buttons identified in the record including portions of the record when the patient is sleeping on the monitor.
EVENT #1 – TIME 18:55:58:  The patient is awake with wife or nurse.  There is a conversation between the patient and the family member.  The patient has abrupt stiffening over the course of nine seconds.  He seems to have axial vibratory movements, which are extremely rapid.  The family member presses the button 12 times during this very brief event.  There is no postictal impairment of awareness and in fact, within seconds there is a conversation regarding whether or not the patient is likely to go home.
EVENT #2 - TIME 19:00:26:  The patient failed to respond to spouse.  EEG shows a low voltage beta frequency pattern.  Given the limitations of this EEG, there is no well-defined posterior dominant rhythm, the recording appears to be valid, and there is no focal or epileptiform features seen at this time.
HR:  72 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal, continuous video EEG due to:
Excess background beta in the initial portions of the record, which improved as the days continued.
Occasional focal slowing in the right posterior quadrant in the region of this patient’s previous gun shot wound.
At least two behavioral events, which were not associated with EEG change.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This tracing supports exposure to a medication which produced dramatic quantities of beta frequency activity.  The focal slowing is in the region of this patient’s structural abnormality.  No epileptiform seizures were identified and the behaviors recorded did not have an EEG correlate.





