History:	42 YR OLD WOMAN WITH PMHX OF  RIGHT CRANI. FOR EPILEPSY SURGERY
1/11. AND SZ  HX WITH STRANGE AURA LIKE FEELING  ON RIGHT SIDE FACE
AND RIGHT LE TINGLING.PRESENTS FOR FOLLOW UP EEG, PT STATES THAT
SHE WAS NON-COMPLAINT WITH SZ MEDS FOR 2 MOS. HAD 2 POSS.
Medications:	TRILEPTAL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and mild disorganization.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta
activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Nearly continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right midtemporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the
left midtemporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent focal sharp
waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at T4. Right mid-temporal
intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA).  One single sharp transient on the left midtemporal
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving.  HR
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, excessive, mild diffuse
Sharp waves, frequent, right temporal, mid
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, right temporal, mid
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, left temporal, anterior
Sharp transients, single, left temporal, mid
TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, right temporal, mid
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of nearly continuous focal slowing,
TIRDA and frequent epileptiform discharges in the right midtemporal region.  These findings are
indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in that region. In addition the focal
slowing and single  sharp transient on the left midtemporal region may suggest an independent
epileptogenic focus in that region. Lastly there is mild  diffuse background slowing.  This finding is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
region was 84





