History:	56 year old man with a history of a generalized convulsion ~ 25 years ago.  Patient
also reports auras, characterized by a sensation of an abnormal smell.  These auras
have recently increased in frequency.
Medications:	Lamictal
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by low amplitude 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Fast alpha variant is captured.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz
activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse beta activity is present.
During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the
record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles.
Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region
during wakefulness, increases during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates focal
slowing in the left temporal region.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any clear effect.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, anterior, Mild-to-moderate
Sleep, stage 2
No epileptiform discharges
Alpha variant, fast
Beta, excessive
Interpretation:
This is a ABNORMAL awake and asleep 24 minutes EEG due to intermittent mild-to-moderate
focal left anterior temporal focal slowing. This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  The lack of epileptiform
discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.  Excessive beta
activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.



