AGE: 71 y.o.
SEX : female
09/08/2015 RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Inpatient
EEG TYPE : routine, awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1307
HISTORY :
a 71 y.o. female who presents as a stroke alert , with new-onset right sided weakness and aphasia. She has a past history of a CVA with residual left hemiparesis (11 yrs ago), and bilateral subdural hematomas are seen on cranial imaging, s/p bilateral craniotomies.
MEDICATIONS: Keppra ; synthroid, insulin, metformin, lantus
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE :
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) recording using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes was performed utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG .
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 8.5-9 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR). The normal anterior-to-posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric sleep spindles and K-complexes present during Stage
II sleep. Slow wave sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.
There is abundant left hemispheric (fronto-temporal-predominant) polymorphic slowing, and occasional synchronous right hemispheric (fronto-temporal-predominant) polymorphic slowing.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation : Not performed Photic Stimulation : Not performed
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake-and-asleep routine EEG due to:
Abundant left hemispheric (fronto-temporal-predominant) polymorphic slowing
Occasional synchronous right hemispheric
(fronto-temporal-predominant) polymorphic slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of left hemispheric (fronto-temporal-predominant) > right hemispheric (fronto-temporal-predominant) cerebral dysfunction.




