History:	76 YR FEMALE WITH CC OF NOT FOLLOW COMMANDS.  PMHX: SEIZURES SECONDARY TO CVA.  PMHX: VASOGENIC EDEMA LEFT FRONTO/PARIET/TEMP AREA W/SM HEMORRHAGIC LESION IN RIGHT
Medications:	KEPPRA HOME MEDS  NO MEDS LISTED NOW
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present. Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent focal sharp waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at 01.  At times the sharp waves become rhythmic, monomorphic and appear to increase in frequency this is supportive of electrographic seizures. The discharges last ~10 to 30 seconds.  No clear correlate is seen on the video. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.  HR was 72
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric
Seizure, frequent, electrographic, left occipital
Sharp waves, frequent, left occipital
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of frequent left occipital electrographic seizures. In addition there is sharp waves and focal slowing which is indicative of a epileptogenic focus in that region. In addition there is continuous focal slowing in the left hemisphere maximal in the left anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural lesion in this region. Lastly, there is moderate  diffuse background slowing and slow alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.





