DATE OF STUDY:  09/12 through 09/13
CLINICAL HISTORY:  Refractory epilepsy with vagal nerve stimulator, left mesial temporal sclerosis, B12 deficiency.  Possible medication nonadherence.  Patient has history of disturbing dreams about which he is reluctant to disclose, intermittent pain at the site of his vagal nerve stimulator, and also reports electrical shocks 3-4 times per day.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, Lamictal, nicotine patch.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG and seizure and spike detection software.  No typical clinical complex partial seizures were noted for this patient.  The patient had an episode of pain below the stimulator site at 9:20 on the night of the 12th and another at approximately 4 a.m.  He was noted to have disrupted sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with a 9 Hz alpha rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.  Sleep is disrupted but there is stage 1 sleep with POSTS and features of stage 2 sleep.  Indeterminate sleep states which may represent REM sleep were noted in the early morning hours of the 13th.
INTERICTAL EPILEPTIFORM DETECTIONS:  In sleep, particularly after 2 a.m., there are abundant sharp waves and spikes maximum at T1, sometimes occurring in trains, often associated with rhythmic slowing.
CLINICAL SEIZURES:  None.
SLEEP AROUSALS:  On several occasions, the patient was noted to have trains of sharp waves and spikes in the EEG followed by arousal.  On some occasions, there were brief arousals.  On 1 occasion, he got up and out of bed to go to the bathroom.  He had a one-on-one to perform testing.  He wakes up and he followed commands with the one-on-one on each occasion but at least at 3 a.m. when he woke up rather than answering he seemed to be having automatisms, just saying "mmmm."  In each occasion, he followed commands and interacted with the nurse and for the 3 a.m. spell, he was talking to her after he went to the bathroom and had a glass of water.  With the arousals, there were no epileptiform features rather a cessation of epileptiform activity and the one-on-one aide who interacted with the patient did not think that the events were abnormal behavior.  These findings were seen at 3:10 a.m., 4:36 a.m. with arousal from sleep.
EKG:  N/A.
IMPRESSION:  This is the 2nd day of continuous video EEG monitoring.  This overall session is remarkable for
An event at 9:25 p.m. on the 11th without a clear epileptiform signature.
Arousals from sleep which are associated with cessation of epileptiform activity and are not clearly different than the patient's usual behavior.
Frequent sharp waves and spikes in the left anterior temporal region.
Rare left temporal focal slowing in wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are similar to previous EEG monitoring sessions.  No well-defined, awake clinical seizures were recorded at this time.  Of note, the patient's behavior and interactions improved over the course of the recording with the utilization of antiepileptic medications and B12 supplementation.



