CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 64-year-old right-handed male with a history of epilepsy status post a left hemisphere stroke in October 2012.  He had a recent seizure on March 25, 2013.  Current seizure frequency is approximately once every few months.
TIME OF START:  1:51 p.m.
TIME OF RECORDING END:  2:15 p.m.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the record opens there is a clear hemispheric asymmetry with the appearance of a 7-8 Hz posterior dominant rhythm seen in the right occipital leads and a fragmentary or nonexistent posterior dominant rhythm of the left occipital region.  There is obvious focal slowing noted in the theta and delta range over the entire left hemisphere, maximal in the frontotemporal and frontocentral regions.  This includes frequencies in the delta 2-3 Hz range and theta 5-6 Hz frequency range.  The focal slowing is nearly continuous throughout the duration of the recording and there are very few normal rhythms seen over the left hemisphere.  Stage 1 sleep is seen and is characterized by attenuation of the existing posterior dominant rhythm over the right.  Stage 2 sleep is briefly seen and heralded by vertex waves and asymmetric sleep spindles of higher amplitude over the right.
Hyperventilation was not performed on this patient.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and did not induce a significant photic driving response.
There were no spikes identified, however, there were intermittent sharp waves identified maximal at F7 or F3 over the left frontal region several times during the recording.  These seemed most prominent during periods of drowsiness.  There were, however, no electrographic seizures identified during the recording.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG capturing wakefulness through stage 2 sleep due to the presence of continuous focal slowing over the left hemisphere and the appearance of infrequent frontal sharp waves in the left frontal region maximal at F7 and F3.  Clinical correlation in the presence of focal slowing is suggestive of a structural brain lesion in this region such as a stroke, which is part of this patient's history.  The presence of focal sharp waves in the left frontal region suggest an epileptogenic focus in this region.



