History:	53 YO FEMALE WITH MULTIPLE STROKES. FIRST ON LEFT SIDE 10 YEARS
AGO, SECOND RIGHT SIDE WITHIN LAST FEW MONTHS. PT AGITATED
DURING HOOK UP. PT REPORTED NO SZ' ACTIVITY.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left mid and anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Occasional focal spikes with a complex polyphasic
morphology are present in the F7/T3, T3 and T5 region with some central spread.  One sharp
transient is seen at F8/T4.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  HR was 72 bps
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent, left temporal
Spikes, frequent, left temporal
Sharp transients, single, right temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep  41 minute EEG because of frequent epileptiform
discharges in the left temporal region some with a more anterior field and others more posterior
field.  These findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region, and given
the clinical history of partial seizures, are consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related
epilepsy.  The single sharp transient on the right is of unclear clinical significance, but suspicious
for a potential epileptogenic foci. Lastly there is  intermittent focal slowing in the left mid and
anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.sleep spindles and K complexes appear.

