REASON FOR EEG:  Follow up continued confusion, dizziness and weakness.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 63-year-old man with history of left PCA stroke as well as bilateral subdurals with confusion, slurred speech, unsteady gait and new onset of atrial fibrillation, hypertension and history of hypertension and diabetes.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with a lead anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode. The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening. There is some frontal central beta.  Activating procedures were not performed.  The patient recorded in wakefulness and drowsiness.  Overall, the background reveals intermittent bursts of theta and delta.  The patient gets drowsy, however, some of them becomes more focal and some of them become more rhythmic.  There is an excessive amount of theta and delta even during wakefulness.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow wave seen over the left temporal and right temporal region at F7 T3 and at times at T4, however, sometimes more centrally at C3 and dependently at C4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  At times over the C3 regions of this focal slowing appears to be very sharply contoured.
Generalized slow waves at 5-7 Hz seen during wakefulness.
SEIZURES:  None.
Heart rate 84 and irregular.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to generalized slow waves as well as independent focal slowing in the bilateral anterior temporal regions and central regions.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the bilateral anterior temporal and independent central regions, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology, but may be due, at least in part, to the known subdurals.  In addition, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges are clinically seen.



