History:	19 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENTS WITH H/O SZ ONSET AT AGE 2, SZ FREE
UNTIL AGE 10 THEN BEGAN TO HAVE SZ DURING SLEEP EVERY NIGHT X 5
YRS AFTER BEING DC'D FROM TRILEPTAL. PT REPORTS TONGUE BITING,
BLADDER INCONT AND NO RECALL OF SZ EVENTS.NOW ADMIT WITH MULTI
Medications:	Depakote, Tegretol
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  As drowsiness progresses, symmetric vertex waves appear followed quickly by
moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes.
Focal slow waves are seen frequently at F8/T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz.  Frequent focal sharp
waves are present in the right anterior temporal region, with phase reversal and amplitude
maximum at F8/T2.  Independent occasional focal sharp waves are present in the left temporal
region, with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at F7/T1
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  With tactile and focal stimulation the
EEG increases to more theta frequencies for seconds.  HR is 84  Bursts of prefrontal beta are seen
intermittently.  Intermittent brief bursts of rhythmic frontal delta are seen.  Both of this discharges are
convening for overall epileptic discharges.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Sharp waves, frequent, bilateral (R>L) temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, right temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of the frequent epileptiform discharges in the bilateral (right
more than left) anterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of a potentially
epileptogenic focus in this region, and given the clinical history of partial seizures,  are consistent
with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy. In addition the EEG revealed intermittent
rhythmic frontal beta and delta, both patterns are concerning for a subclinical electrical discharge.
Lastly there is  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.


