History:	75 YO FEMALE IN S/P FOR TAVR - AORTA
THORACIC ENDOVASCULAR REPAIR OF LARGE DESCENDING, DISSECT
AORTIC ANEURYSM
Medications:	PROPOFOL, SEVOFLURANE, NITRO, VANCOMYCIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Description:
Digital EEG was performed in the OR using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one
channel of EKG. Our standard operative montage was used. This EEG included a physician in the
OR during the recording (8:06 AM through 10:47 AM).  As the recording begins the patient has
received anesthesia and initially demonstrated a burst-suppression pattern which is initially
asynchronous.  Medication are adjusted and the recording shows a relatively synchronous and
symmetric pattern with mixed alpha, theta, and delta frequencies.  There is a mild asymmetry at
the baseline noted in frontotemporal as well as occipital region with slowing on the left side
compared to the right.  Heparin is given at 9:20 AM. The endo graft is deployed at 10:04 AM.
There are no changes during the procedure except for one short-lasting episode of burst-
suppression pattern for 1-2 minutes when blood pressure drops (at 9:55 AM). The surgery team is
informed and the blood pressure is corrected appropriately.  The burst-suppression pattern changes
to almost symmetric activity with mixed frequencies then.  Recording is continued after angiogram
performed following endo graft deployment.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Interpretation:
This EEG monitoring during TEVAR procedure showed mild asymmetric background activity at the
baseline with no significant change during procedure. Burst-suppression pattern could be due to
anesthesia or blood pressure fluctuation during the procedure.  Intermittent focal slowing in the left
hemisphere region could be indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-

