History:	73 YR MALE WITH CHANGE IN MS. APHASIC, PMHX: HTN, DM, HLD, CHF. FOUND TO BE HAVING SZS. MRI NEG
Medications:	Dilantin, Keppra
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic

Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG technologists. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.  All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events


Description:
For much of the recording, there is no posterior dominant rhythm was present. However, during brief stages of maximal arousal, there is a 7Hz posterior dominant rhythm that is reactive to eye opening. Much of the background activity was characterized by diffuse low voltage delta and theta activity with      absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies. Throughout much of the day, there is Stage I and II sleep seen intermittently. At night, after 11PM, additional deeper stages of sleep are seen.

No focal slowing is present. No epileptiform discharges are present. No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.

Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed. There was reactivity to auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.

Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral generalized

Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG because of diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm. These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction. No clinical or electrographic seizures are present. These findings were conveyed to the primary team.

