CLINICAL HISTORY:  Cirrhosis, stroke, new onset seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Vimpat, Phenobarbital, Ativan
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG recording was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was confused, had intermittent twitching of the right leg or face as well as oral automatisms.  Due to these symptoms, he received Vimpat, phenobarbital, and Ativan.
Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the ICU/Neuromonitoring Unit.  The system employed continuous seizure and spike detection.  Clinical push button detections were performed by the staff for clinical events.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the recording begins, there are sharp waves noted particularly at C3, more so than P3.  Seizures waxed and waned.
At 12:48 the seizures stopped briefly and alpha frequency activity seen from the right.  They then recur with sharp waves and spikes at 12:49.
As benzodiazepines were employed, intermittently, there are brief suppressions and attenuations noted.
There is variability in terms of the epileptiform activity in the left hemisphere which can be central, central parietal, or posterior with almost a polyspike component in the left occipital region.  Ictal buildups are noted which are typically under a minute in duration.
This continuous video EEG monitoring was compatible with an ongoing ictal pattern.
CONTINUATION:  This section of the record captures EEG after 10 p.m.  During this section, the patient is confused.  He is intermittently responsive, may answer simple commands at times.  On other occasions, he has automatisms.  Globally, he remains poorly responsive.
October 16-17
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  While there are rare sections in the record when the patient seems to wake up a little bit and there is a return of the alpha rhythm on the right.  The majority of this record demonstrates bursts and paroxysmal discharges of high amplitude spikes and polyspike fast activity from the left hemisphere.  This activity may be maximum at C3, P3, or T5 with some variability.  No consistent pattern of improvement was noted.
Heart rate 93 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is compatible with an ongoing complex partial status epilepticus pattern.  Although there are sections of the record where the epileptiform activity appears to be abating.  Inevitably, there were recurrent bursts of epileptiform activity from the left hemisphere.
October 17-18
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG was performed on October 17, 2012 through October 18, 2012 using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient is restless or obtunded.  He received 1000 mg of phenobarbital.  Levetiracetam and lacosamide were discontinued as the patient's thrombocytopenia was increasing.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In this section of the record, the patient is intermittently somewhat intermittently agitated.  There is little in the way of a clear clinical seizure.
With stimulation, at times the theta pattern appears from the right.
Epileptiform activity on this day includes primarily higher amplitude, fast activity primarily from the left central region, more so than the left parietal region.  The record demonstrates intermittent improvement in this 24 hour section with improvement of the background bilaterally, but persistent left central parietal epileptiform activity with fast activity in the parietal occipital region.  The patient receives increasing doses of phenobarbital.  This produces an increase in the discontinuous pattern, but the complex epileptiform activity in the left occipital parietal region persists.  The epileptiform activity is relatively complex, some discharges are maximum more parietal occipitally, others more clearly central.
Heart rate:  90 BPM.



