History:	52 year old man with a history of left frontoparietal GBM status post resection
several months ago, now presents with worsening right sided weakness and
ambulatory dysfunction.
Medications:	Dilantin, neurontin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  During
maximal wakefulness, the background over the right hemisphere consists of polymorphic moderate
amplitude 8-9 Hz activity, expected AP gradient and excess theta activity.  The background over
the left hemisphere demonstrates 8 Hz polymorphic theta activity posteriorly, excess theta and delta
activity, weak AP gradient and underriding fast activity over the left posterior quadrant (breach
rhythm).  Symmetrical vertex waves and K-complexes are captured.
Three electrographic seizures are noted.  Seizure #1 is seen at the opening of the recording, so it
is not captured in its entirety (only ~ 57 seconds).  Seizures #2 and #3 last ~3 min 17 sec and ~2.5
min, respectively.  There is no clear clinical  correlate and patient is not formally tested during any
of his seizures.  Seizures start with rhythmic moderate amplitude ~5-5.5 Hz spikes with aftergoing
slow waves emanating from T5 and O1 electrodes.  There is a gradual increase in frequency and
spread to the adjacent P3 electrode and, to a lesser degree, to Pz electrode.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, few, left, post-temporal- occipital, ~2.5-3.3 min
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left, mild-to-moderate
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild
Breach artifact, left posterior
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 23 minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; (2) continuous mild-to-
moderate left hemispheric slowing and (3) 3 focal prolonged left posterior temporal -occipital
electrographic seizures. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  There is focal structural epileptogenic lesion over the left - known left
frontoparietal tumor status post several resections.  These findings were conveyed to the primary
team.  Patient will be place don long-term continuous EEG monitoring and his AED therapy will be
adjusted






