CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 50-year-old male with a previous stroke, left hemiparesis and right-sided sensory abnormalities.  As an outpatient the patient reports daily convulsions.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin taper.
INTRODUCTION:  Twenty-four hour continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the EEG monitoring unit.  The patient had 2 pushbutton events.
October 26-27
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:
In wakefulness there is a well-formed alpha rhythm.  The patient sleeps poorly with primarily stage I sleep and disturbed sleep.
Pushbuttons:
October 26, at 8:20 a.m.:  The patient is awake in bed.  There is a normal wake EEG.  No clinical signs were noted.
Time:  8:08 p.m.  The patient is wake in bed with the R.N.  There is movement artifact.  The video does not indicate epileptiform type behaviors and despite some artifacts, the EEG demonstrates a normal awake pattern.
Heart rate is 60 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  EEG monitoring during this 24-hour section of the record included 2 pushbutton events, but no interictal epileptiform activity and no clinical seizures.
October 27-28.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the long-term monitoring unit with seizure and spike detection software.  An attempt was made to sleep deprive the patient who was unable to do so.  This EEG captures wakefulness through deep stages of sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
In wakefulness, there is a symmetric reactive posterior dominant rhythm.  As the patient becomes drowsy, focal slowing from the right hemisphere with more rhythmic slowing and disruption of faster frequency activity was observed.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves and spindles and the spindles are slightly asymmetric, slow wave sleep was noted.  The patient is noted to fall asleep rapidly and to sometimes transition in and out of sleep.
Practice pushbuttons were noted, but no clinical seizures were recorded.
Heart rate 60 BPM.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This 24-hour section of EEG monitoring was remarkable for focal slowing seen primarily in drowsiness and the absence of epileptiform activity.
October 29
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  During this 24-hour section, the patient had none of his typical convulsive seizures.  He reported some weird feelings in his left foot.  The nurses noted that he was intermittently tearful.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Random wakefulness and sleepy wakefulness:  Much of the record includes a well-organized background with measured alpha rhythm.  Particularly drowsiness, rhythmic slowing is noted from the right hemisphere.  Vertex waves and spindles are noted through stage II sleep.
The focal slowing is a little bit more prominent in the transition in and out of sleep.
Heart rate:  60 BPM.
The patient tends to pick at his EEG electrodes but by the 29th the quality of the EEG electrodes is quite good.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This 24-hour section of the EEG recording did not identify any epileptiform seizures or any behaviors that looked like a convulsive seizure.
October 30
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was employed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Abundant stage II sleep with vertex waves and spindles was identified.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Event time:  06:27 in the morning.  The patient has been awake that morning, awakening and then going back to sleep.  He awakens before the seizure at 06:28 and starts rocking his body gently, then he pushes the button.  He has been rocking his body for about 20 seconds with about a 3 Hz rocking pattern.  The EEG includes 3 Hz rocking artifact.  A nurse enters at 06:30:24 and talks to the patient.  The patient stops doing some of his motor activity but then he has circular shaking with the right hand, less so on the left.  He looks to the left.  With interaction with the nurse, much of the rocking stops and then at 06:30:40 he is now rocking primarily head and neck.  He is unable to speak but follows commands.  He continues to demonstrate rocking behavior at 06:30:54.  The EEG, despite the electrode problems, is interpretable and he is gently rocking at 06:33:44.  Despite the problems when he stops rocking for a minute, it is clear that the EEG, despite the scalp electrode problems, demonstrates a normal pattern.  At 06:39:54 he lifts his left hand with his right hand.
He tells the nurses this is one of his typical seizures and he can feel the tremulousness with it.  By 06:40:04 he is able to use his right hand purposefully on his left and the behavior seems to have resolved at 06:42:34.
Despite the technical limitations described above, there is no EEG signature to this event other than rocking.  In the sections where the patient stops moving, there is no pathological activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG monitoring session demonstrated intermittent focal slowing, particularly with drowsiness. There were a number of different push button events.  The one on the morning of the 30th was described by the patient as his typical convulsion.  None of these had epileptiform activity.
October 31
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient had no clinical seizures.  He frequently asked the EEG monitoring staff about going home with them, expressed reluctance to return to his inpatient rehabilitation program.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
In wakefulness, there is a symmetric reactive alpha rhythm.  In drowsiness, focal slowing emerges from the right hemisphere, particularly frontocentral and frontotemporal.  Vertex waves, spindles, and POSTS are noted in stage II sleep.
Heart rate 60 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This prolonged, continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Focal slowing from the right hemisphere.
Push button events without epileptiform correlates.
A typical event for the patient for which he had an aura with body movements and rocking from side-to-side.  Although there was significant EEG artifact, there were no epileptiform features.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The focal features are congruent with a past stroke.  The clinical events recorded were without an EEG signature.  The video correlates were highly suggestive of an emotionally linked event such as a nonepileptiform seizure.  These findings were discussed with the patient.



