TYPE OF STUDY:  Portable EEG.
DIAGNOSIS:  Rule out seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 49-year-old male with a history of seizures and hypertension presents with seizure-like activities described as acting weird, staring, confusion, and EMS noted generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include phenobarbital and Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the lab using the standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1-channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness through a stage II sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 8.5-9 Hz in frequency and 30-35 microvolts in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness.  There is presence of low amplitude diffuse beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage I sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm and slowing of the background activity and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of the vertex sharp waves.  Stage II sleep was captured characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles. Heart rate was 90-100 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to excess theta activity during wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to toxic metabolic hypoxic or infectious encephalopathy, alternatively it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  The generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including phenobarbital or hyperthyroidism.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform discharges abnormalities or seizures were captured during this record.  If clinically indicated, a repeat sleep deprived EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.  The absence of epileptiform activities or seizures does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.



