REASON FOR STUDY:  Follow-up after epilepsy surgery.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 26-year-old woman with a history of seizures secondary to tubular sclerosis, last seizure on 06/26/2012.  Status post left craniectomy and resection of tumor on January 28, 2012.  Here for follow-up EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Lyrica.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine video EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with an additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during drowsiness and wakefulness.  Activating procedures including hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is seen best over the right hemisphere.  Over the left hemisphere sometimes a posterior dominant rhythm can be seen but it is somewhat slowed.  There is normal frontocentral beta seen over the right hemisphere as well over the right anterior temporal region and some of it seen excessively over the right central region.  Activating procedures produced no abnormal discharges.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal slow waves seen over the left hemisphere maximal at T5 with associated higher amplitude and some of the faster frequencies over the central region consistent with a breach rhythm.
Focal sharp waves seen occasionally at T5, at times at C3 through the breach in wakefulness.
Heart rate 66.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left posterior temporal sharp waves and central sharp waves seen infrequently in addition to a left hemispheric dysfunction maximal in the posterior temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures possibly arising from the left posterior temporal and/or central region.  In addition, there is evidence of structural focal cerebral dysfunction in the left hemisphere maximal in the posterior temporal region, which is consistent with the known surgery.  No seizures were seen during this recording.



