CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 22-year-old female with a history of seizures after a stereotactic frontal craniotomy for a central neurocytoma and VP shunt, now with recurrent seizures, low Dilantin levels.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin 1 gram, Ativan 12 mg, as well as added Ativan afterward; later intubated and placed on propofol.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term EEG for 18 hours was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional EKG and anterior temporal electrodes.  The patient was comatose and unresponsive during the EEG.  No activating procedures were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffuse background which is disorganized, mainly in the delta/theta frequencies with no normal posterior dominant rhythm and no normal frontocentral beta.  No normal sleep architecture is also seen.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges seen at T4-T6 at a frequency of 2 Hz with amplitude of 20 to 75 microvolts.  These discharges are seen continuously but appear to evolve as described in the seizure paragraph.  During the recording, these PLEDs become more blunted and less frequent, but they are continuously seen.  At times during the last part of the recording, they appeared to have more anterior predominance, moving from T4 forward to the F8 region.
Diffuse slow waves seen in the recording.
SEIZURES:   Frequent seizures are seen emanating from the T6-T4 electrode which evolve from PLEDs and stop.  There is a contralateral left hemisphere artifact as well as in the video left arm trembling can be seen during these seizures.  There are multiple of these occurring at the beginning of the recording, almost continuously. However, as the over time the recording improves, the periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges become more blunted and the seizures stop.  During the rest of the EEG, the last 10 hours of the EEG, there is only intermittent muscle artifact on the left hemisphere but no clear actual seizures being seen.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Frequent seizures arising from the left posterotemporal region, which later improve, and none seen during the last 10 hours.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization epilepsy arising from the right posterotemporal region, with multiple seizures seen from that region.  Please note that the seizures improve and none are seen during the last 10 hours. In addition there is continuous evidence of acute focal dysfunction and irritability in the right hemisphere.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction which in this patient is likely due, at least in part, to medication affect.



