CLINICAL HISTORY:  Left MCA infarct, subsequent seizure.  This is a 49-year-old woman admitted on the 16th with worsening aphasia, right-sided weakness, stroke, and seizure.  The patient admitted with worsening stroke, previous stroke with seizure in April 2013.
MEDICATIONS:  Lisinopril, atorvastatin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This is an awake record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is an asymmetry between the 2 hemispheres.  There is a 9 Hz alpha rhythm on the right.  The left hemisphere demonstrates rhythmic delta with a phase reversal at F7.  This is a sharply contoured background and there is some sharp transients at T3/F7.  As the recording continues, in relaxed wakefulness, the EEG is reasonably well organized from the right hemisphere with just a small amount of frontal slowing and generous beta.  The left hemisphere demonstrates continuous a disruption of faster frequency activity, although there is some theta.  The sharp waves in the left hemisphere ranged from well-defined to discrete.  Most have a phase reversal in the temporal regions whether it is anterior temporal or mid temporal, but some have a bit more posterior temporal distribution.  Features of drowsiness include an increase in background slowing followed by arousals.  On one occasion, the transition towards an arousal, there is a sharp wave on the right.
Heart rate is 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Essentially continuous rhythmic slowing from the left hemisphere.
Disruption of faster frequency activity on the left.
Sharp waves, primarily left anterior temporal, but with some variability in terms of amplitude in spread.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a structural process on the left involving gray and white matter, congruent with acute and subacute stroke.  Previous
EEG demonstrated left posterior temporal sharply contoured slowing in this EEG has a little bit more anterior temporal slowing.



