CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 51-year-old woman with post traumatic epilepsy after an MVA in 2006.  The patient has episodes with numbness, tingling and nausea followed by tremulousness and loss of consciousness.  Symptoms are elicited by stimuli of objects with circular patterns.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Librium, Topamax, tramadol, and Stelazine.
INTRODUCTION:  A 30 minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Impedances were   under 5 kilo-ohms with the exception of the T1 and T2 electrodes.  This is a 30 minute study.  During the EEG, the folder of visual stimuli that was provided was reviewed with the patient.  These pictures were provided by the patient and were downloaded from Trypophobia.com. and included 14 pages of stimuli.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  Hyperventilation was performed with good effort and did not activate the record.
Following hyperventilation, the patient complained that her eyes were fluttering and that she was feeling nauseated, and was having visual scintillations.  The EEG demonstrated a normal awake pattern at that time.
After these symptoms resolved, the patient had very prominent lateral eye movements.  Photic stimulation was performed when the patient was comfortable.  A driving response was noted.  The patient continued to have prominent lateral eye movements.
Visual stimulation was presented at 12:17 p.m., the patient found this stimulation to be unpleasant.  The EEG at that time demonstrated a normal awake pattern.  The technologist did testing with the patient asking the patient to count to 10.  The patient missed one number, but the EEG at that time demonstrated a normal awake pattern.
Heart rate 96 to 104 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is a normal, 30 minutes awake EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No focal or epileptiform features were identified in this record.  There was a fair amount of eye movement artifact.   The visual stimuli did not produce a change in the EEG.  At times during the EEG when the patient felt unwell, the EEG demonstrated a normal pattern with a great deal of movement artifact.



