AGE: 64 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 11/24/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy EEG #: 15-1715
HISTORY:
64 y.o. female with a history of atrial fibrillation, hyperlipidemia, GERD, and gout presenting with a history of altered mental status. Her family witnessed shaking of her head then rolling of her eyes with loss of consciousness.
She was referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change.
MEDICATIONS: AMLODIPINE, METOPROLOL, ATORVASTATIN SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and beta frequencies, with a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) . The normal anterior-to posterior gradient of frequency and amplitude is present.
During brief periods of drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.
There is abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing; occasionally this slowing becomes rhythmic (see below under "epileptiform activity") .
There is frequent synchronous and also independent right temporal polymorphic slowing; occasionally this slowing becomes
quasi-rhythmic (see below under "epileptiform activity") .
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
Occasional bi-temporal (left > right) independent quasi-rhythmic slowing at 1-2 Hz for runs of 6 seconds or less, as above (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity [TIRDA] or lateralized rhythmic delta activity [RDA] ).
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
An irregular heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake and briefly drowsy routine EEG due to:
Abundant left temporal polymorphic slowing; occasionally this slowing becomes rhythmic [TIRDA I lateralized RDA] .
Frequent synchronous and also independent right temporal polymorphic slowing; occasionally this slowing becomes
quasi-rhythmic [TIRDA I lateralized RDA] .
An irregular heart rate of 84 bpm captured on a single EKG lead.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of bitemporal independent (left > right) cerebral dysfunction.
Temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (TIRDA, also known as lateralized rhythmic delta activity or RDA), seen bitemporally but more on the left, has been associated with seizures.
Clinical correlation is advised.
An irregular heart rate of 84 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.



