CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 53-year-old gentleman, and recently hospitalized at Nazareth Hospital December 24th.  The patient had a choking spell followed by left-sided numbness and then twitching with bilateral hand numbness.  No pulmonary complaints, but history of obesity.
MEDICATIONS:  Acyclovir, lisinopril, Symbicort, and aspirin.
INTRODUCTION:  A 28 minute and digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This is a technically acceptable EEG with most impedances, and less than 5 kilohms.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, the EEG is well organized with a 10.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontal central beta the ETA.  Hyperventilation was performed early in the record producing bursts of rhythmic frontal delta.  In hyperventilation and, following hyperventilation and drowsiness, as the patient drifts off to sleep, there are prominent bursts of rhythmic frontal 3-4 Hz activity.  Some of these bursts have EKG artifact in them, giving the appearance of the spike and wave complex, but there are no bursts of frontal delta, which have definitive spike and wave morphology.  The patient is able to transition to stage 2 sleep with vertex waves and spindles and again these brief bursts of rhythmic frontal delta.
Photic stimulation elicited a bilateral driving.
Heart rate 84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is remarkable for.
Bursts of prominent frontal 3-4 Hz activity in drowsiness.
At but remain represent a somewhat disrupted sleep pattern.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  There was no definitive spike and wave activity.  The bursts of frontal delta are in a nonspecific pattern.  They may represent in a drowsy pattern in this adult.  If there were no focal features in this record and there were no focal epileptiform features.  If this individual is thought to have an underlying sleep disturbance, or disrupted sleep, the frontal delta and arousals might fit into that phenomenon.  If generalized seizures are a consideration, a follow up, 1 hour study may be of value.





