History:	31 YR OLD FEMALE PRESENT WITH H/O UNCONTROLLED SZ
Medications:	Keppra and Dilantin. Also received ativan on 09/28/2014 in AM
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 39 hours from 09/27/2014 to 09/29/2014.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description: Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent. During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric region. No focal slowing is present.  Frequent focal sharp waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at P3 and large central field. At times they appear rhythmically in runs for up to 15 seconds.  There were 4 seizures during this record. Lasting from 30 to 55 seconds. Thet start with rhythmic left parietal (P3) sharp waves that increase in frequency and amplitude.The field spreads centrally but remain mainly in the central and parietal region.  She may look initially to the left and seconds later she has right with head version while lifting her right arm, her eyes also jerk to the right. She continues this behavior until she suddenly stops.  She does not follow commands during the event. She is post ictally confused for 1-2 minutes.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  Hr was 66.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, left parietal
Sharp waves, left parietal
Interpretation: This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of four electrographic seizures arising from the left parietal region.  These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this sleep spindles and K complexes appear. 


