CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 63-year-old man with a past history of a motor vehicle accident in 1970 with a subsequent coma.  The patient developed post traumatic epilepsy and has had recent seizures.  His highest seizure frequency has been as high as 10 seizures per day.
MEDICATIONS: None
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed on this patient using the standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG monitoring.  During the course of the recording hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  The recording captures wakefulness through stage 1 and stage 2 sleep.
Recording was 22minutes in duration.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the record opens there is a symmetric 8.5 to 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm that is reactive to eye opening.  There is a small amount of frontocentral beta activity that is present as well.  Drowsiness is characterized by a decrease in eye blinks and the appearance of slowing in the theta range in the occipital electrodes.  There is the appearance of slow rolling eye movements.  Throughout the recording there is intermittent focal slowing noted over the right hemisphere.  This is most prominent over the right frontotemporal region, but also extends into the frontocentral regions.  On several occasions throughout the recording there are medium amplitude sharp waves identified that are maximal in the right frontal region phase reversing at F8 and T4.  These occur as isolated sharp waves.  Hyperventilation induces generalized slowing in the tracing.  Photic stimulation does not induce a significant photic driving response.  There were no clinical events recorded or noted by the technician during the recording epoch.  There were no electrographic seizures identified. Heart rate varied from 60-80.
IMPRESSION:  In summary, this is an abnormal EEG capturing wakefulness through stage 2 sleep due to the presence of focal slowing over the right hemisphere and rare sharp waves noted over the right frontotemporal region.  The appearance of focal slowing may be suggestive of a structural brain lesion in this region.  Sharp waves have epileptiform potential.



