History:	45 year old man with a history of seizures that started about 1 year ago.  Patient
also has a history of a prior alcohol abuse.
Medications:	Trileptal
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8.5-9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and sleep
spindles and K complexes appear.  At times sleep spindles are more prominent over the left.
Subtle right anterior temporal polymorphic theta activity is noted over the right anterior temporal
region.  Intermittent low to moderate amplitude sharp waves are noted over the right anterior
temporal region during drowsiness/ sleep.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over the F8 lead.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with fair cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, mild, right temporal, anterior
Sharp waves, intermittent, right temporal, anterior, mostly during drowsiness/ sleep
Asynchrony, sleep spindles, occasional, better visualized over the left
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 26-minute EEG due to intermittent mild right anterior
temporal slowing, intermittent left anterior temporal epileptiform discharges and occasional
asynchrony of sleep spindles, with sleep spindles better visualized over the left.  These findings are
indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the right anterior temporal region.






