
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 22-year-old woman with a history of traumatic brain injury, no description of recent seizures.  Postoperative heterotopic calcification.

MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Lovenox, and baclofen.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1-channel EKG.  The patient had multiple craniotomy scars and poor head control.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG demonstrates a continuous pattern with generous beta.  Focal delta is noted in the right posterior region and left frontal region.  There is little in the way of a posterior dominant rhythm.  The overall pattern is a mixed frequency pattern rich in beta and theta with intermittent delta.  Occasional more rhythmic delta is noted from the right hemisphere.  As the patient drifts off to sleep, there is an increase in rhythmic slowing in the central regions.  A breach rhythm is noted left central and right posteriorly.  In the context of a breach rhythm, there is sharply contoured activity in the right central temporal region.

Photic stimulation is essentially obscured by muscle artifact but during photic stimulation sharp waves are noted in the right central temporal region.  A scant photic driving response was identified with a 19 Hz stimuli.

This is a technically challenging EEG for an individual who had difficulty participating.

Heart rate is 90 BPM.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
1. A markedly abnormal background, lacking the normal morphologies anticipated for an adult of this age and a mixed frequency background.
2. A diffusely slow and poorly organized pattern.
3. Shifting slowing noted from either hemisphere including more left frontotemporal and more right posterior.
4. Right central temporal sharp waves.
5. Bursts of right central temporal focal slowing.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No seizures were recorded.  In comparison to previous EEGs, this study demonstrates significant improvement.  If epilepsy is an important consideration, a repeat study may be
of value.  Of note, this patient had previous EEG monitoring for involuntary movements which were not thought to be seizures at that time.




