History:	51 year old man with a history of seizures since childhood, now presents with acute
change in his mental status.
Medications:	Keppra, lorazepam
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8.5Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Intermittent left anterior temporal sharp waves are noted during
wakefulness, increasing in drowsiness and sleep.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F7/T1
electrodes.  These sharp waves have a broad field.  A single seizure is captured.  It occurs out of
sleep.  Clinically patient wakes up and has what appears to be tonic posturing (only his head and
upper torso are visible on the video).  He then turns his head to the right.  He does not respond to
the EEG  technologist's questions during the episode.  Electrographically, seizure is characterized
by arousal and diffuse voltage attenuation.  Low amplitude rhythmic left temporal delta activity
appears and evolves into high amplitude rhythmic left temporal
theta activity that spreads throughout the left hemisphere with some reflection over the right
temporal leads.  Seizure lasts ~ 40 seconds.  A single EKG lead demonstrates increase in heart rate
from ~ 60 bpm to 120 bpm during seizure.  Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic
stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces only right occipital driving at multiple flash
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, one, out of sleep, poor lateralization and localization at onset
Sharp waves, frequent, left temporal, anterior, F7/T1, more so during drowsiness and sleep
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 41-minute EEG due to continuous moderate left anterior
focal slowing, frequent left anterior temporal epileptiform discharges that increase in frequency
during drowsiness/ sleep and a single ~40-second seizure that is poorly localized and lateralized at
onset with evolution over the left temporal region.  There is focal structural abnormality over the
left anterior region.  A single EKG lead demonstrates increase in heart rate from ~ 60 bpm to 120
bpm during seizure.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team at the time of
sleep spindles and K complexes appear. the recording. rates.	I


