History:	53 year old man with onset of left sided facial and left arm (and occasionally left
leg) dystonic posturing with associated vocalization.
Medications:	Keppra and Klonopin.
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude 10-11 Hz alpha
activity that attenuates with eye opening.  There is expected AP gradient with faster frequencies at
lower amplitudes anteriorly.  Bursts of diffuse delta activity are captured.  Diffuse excess beta
activity is present.  Normal sleep architecture consisting of symmetrical vertex waves and sleep
Occasional polymorphic delta activity is noted over the right temporocentral region.  Three
discrete seizures are captured.  Seizures occur ~4 min 14 sec, 25 min and ~44 min into the
recording.  Onset of seizure #1 is not fully clear.  There is a suggestion of left frontocentral onset,
but overall change is diffuse and is characterized by  appearance of moderate amplitude
polymorphic theta activity posteriorly.  Rapidly this theta activity becomes more rhythmic.  There is
gradual decrease in frequency and increase in amplitude and diffuse speed of rhythmic theta.
There is gradual change of  theta activity into delta activity.  Seizure onset is gradual and there is
diffuse under riding delta activity after seizure ends.  Clinically, patient moves, brings his left arm to
his face and turns his head to the left and looks at the technologist.  He  does not follow any
commands.   There is brief left arm jerk, left shoulder jerk and head jerk several seconds after
seizure first is apparent on EEG.  Even though he moves his both arms, his left arm remains flexed,
left hand folded into a fist and head
turned to the left until seizure ends.  Seizure #2 occurs out of stage II sleep.  It appears to start over
the right posterior quadrant and is characterized by appearance of moderate amplitude
polymorphic 8-9 Hz activity and under riding delta activity over the right hemisphere.  Within several
seconds similar activity appears over the left and seizure progresses similar to seizure #1.
clinically, patient moans, lifts his left arm, appears confused and follows no commands.  No left
sided jerk is present with this seizure.  Seizure #3 too occurs out of stage II sleep and starts similar to
seizure #2.  However, no rhythmic theta activity is present and brief rhythmic diffuse delta activity
appears only at the end of the ictal event.  Clinically, patient takes off some of the  electrodes and
appears confused.  Typical left sided myoclonic jerk occurs ~ 30 seconds after seizure onset.
Seizures last ~ 50-60 seconds and are associated with mild increase in heart rate (up to ~ 100
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Seizure, few, 3 events.  Unclear onset #1 and likely right posterior onset for Sz #2 and #3
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, moderate, right, temporocentral
Sleep, stage 2
Beta, excessive
Interpretation: spindles is noted.bpm).
This is a very abnormal 46 minutes awake and asleep EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, occasional
moderate right temporocentral focal slowing and 3 stereotyped focal seizures (of unclear (Sz#1)
and likely right posterior quadrant (Sz #2 and #3) onset). Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse
cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Focal occasional moderate right
temporocentral slowing is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-
specific, but possibly structural in origin.  There is likely structural focal ictal focus over the right
hemisphere, possibly emanating from the right posterior quadrant.  Excessive beta activity could be
secondary to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.  Patient was admitted
to the hospital for further management of his condition.

