TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG during wakefulness and sleep.
DIAGNOSIS:  Rule out seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 52-year-old female, right-handed with history of hypothyroidism and a stroke and seizures since the age of 12 who presents with dizziness and shaking.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include Tegretol.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the laboratory using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness and stage 2 sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm is 8.5-9 Hz in frequency 30-50 microvolt in amplitude seen the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening. There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness which is distributed symmetrically.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontotemporal beta activity which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage 1 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as presence of vertex sharp waves.  Stage 2 sleep was characterized by the presence of sleep spindles.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies resulting a driving response.  Hyperventilation results in symmetric slowing of the background.  Heart rate was 60-80 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to presence of excess theta activity during wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to metabolic toxic, hypoxic or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effects of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



