History:	42 year old woman with a history of seizures, now presents in status epilepticus.
Medications:	 DEPAKOTE, PHENOBARBITAL, DILANTIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 09/05/2015 till 09/06/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  During wakefulness, the background consists of polymorphic
diffuse theta activity.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Sleep spindles are captured.  They are
better formed over the right hemisphere.
Additional, somewhat rhythmic delta activity is seen over the left hemisphere, especially left
temporal region.  Continuous 1 Hz left temporal PLEDs seen in prior days continue.  As the
recording progresses, however, they are mostly replaced by rhythmic left temporal delta activity.  No
electrographic seizures are captured.
Various EEG leads demonstrate artifact throughout the recording.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, rhythmic, continuous, left hemispheric, especially over the temporal region
No electrographic seizures
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), left temporal, 1Hz, improve by the end
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour EEG due to (1) moderate diffuse slowing; (2) continuous
focal left hemispheric slowing, especially over the left temporal region, and (3) 1 Hz left temporal
periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges that improve by the end of the recording.  There is a
focal structural cerebral abnormality over the left, especially left temporal region, that has
increased epileptogenic potential.  When compared to the prior days of the recording, left temporal
PLEDs are less pronounced on this recording epoch  .  Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate
diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.





