REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 25-year-old man with a history of left parietal tumor resected, status post radiation and recent stroke in addition to possible vasculitis, presents with recurrent confusion. EEG is to rule out electrographic status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat and Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The EEG reveals a posterior dominant rhythm of 9 Hz which is best seen over the right hemisphere.  There is some frontal central beta seen best over the right hemisphere, at times seen over the left.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Some normal sleep architecture is seen.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal slow waves seen continuously over P3 and at times T3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz.  Amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  Focal sharp waves are seen at O1 independently occasionally.
Seizures:
The patient had during this recording 2 electrographic seizures.  The first one occurring at 7:18 p.m. until 7:28 p.m. lasting for 10 minutes.  It appears to originate at O1 with rhythmic sharp waves in the theta frequency, that increasing amplitude and frequency and appeared to spread slightly to O2 but remained mainly in the occipital region.  During the event the patient moves around but no other clear clinical features can be seen in the video.  At 12:30 a.m. the patient had another seizure lasting 5 minutes.  This time the patient again was in the bed and no clinical seizures were seen.  In the EEG there was again in O1 an electrographic seizure that began with a discharge of spikes in the alpha frequency that continued to evolve to the theta frequency and increasing amplitude and then suddenly stopped. This one was spread less through the occipital region and stayed mainly at O1.  During the rest of the night no more seizures were seen until and this EEG was reviewed until 8:00 in the morning.
Heart rate.  72.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to 2 electrographic seizures arising from the left occipital region, in addition to focal slowing seen continuously over the left hemisphere maximal in the parietal and temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals or is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with 2 seizures arising from the left occipital region.  In addition, there is no evidence of focal structural cerebral dysfunction in the left hemisphere maximum in the parietal and temporal region which may be related to the known tumor resection.  These findings were communicated to the primary team as they occurred.



