REASON FOR STUDY:  Episodes of losing time.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 33-year-old woman who had a history of cerebellar tumor removed in addition to VP shunt placed and previous pontine stroke, that presents with episodes of losing time occurring daily.
MEDICATIONS:
Albuterol.
Acyclovir.
Multivitamins.
Neurontin yesterday was stopped.
INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recording during wakefulness and sleep, stage I, stage II, as well as deeper stages of sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed. Continuous pike wave detection as well as seizure detection itself were in addition to nurse's note and patient's events were all just to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior rhythm and a rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There was normal frontal central beta.  Activating procedures were not performed.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness, stage I and stage II, and deeper stages of sleep.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen at T4 and F4 independently at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts with a high amplitude compared to the left side which is consistent with a breach rhythm.  At some points, this focal slowing can be very sharply contoured, however, it does not appear to be clearly epileptic.
Focal slow waves seen intermittently at T3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-40 microvolts.
EPISODES OR PUSHED BUTTONS:  The patient pushed the button at 1:30 in the morning as well as at 6 in the morning and complained of feeling losing time in the middle of the night.  No clinical behavior was seen during these episodes in the video and the EEG remained with no EEG correlate.
SEIZURES:  None.
HEART RATE:  78.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to right more than left, right frontal, mid temporal in addition to left mid temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the right frontal and mid temporal region in addition to the left mid temporal region, all of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures or clear epileptiform discharges were seen in this first 24 hours, day one of recording.



