CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 44-year-old woman with subarachnoid hemorrhage on a Pentobarbital coma.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Amiodipine, Klonopin, Effexor, Gentamicin, Oxacillin, Mannitol, morphine, and a Pentobarbital coma.
INTRODUCTION: 24-hour video EEG monitoring is performed at the bedside.   The patient receives a Pentobarbital load beginning at 20:37:36.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The initial portions of the record demonstrate a pattern identical to her baseline with sharp activity in the frontal regions, particularly right frontal, and asymmetry with significantly less faster frequency on the right than the left.  As the recording continues at 2100 hours, the background becomes slower on the right before the left.  By 21:30 hours, the EEG has developed into a burst suppression pattern with periods of suppression lasting up to three seconds.  The Pentobarbital is titrated, reaching a maximum of 3 mg/kg/minute over night.  The periods of suppression are variable ranging from three to ten seconds.  By the morning hours of the 26th, the EEG demonstrates suppression lasting up to 15 seconds with bursts of activity lasting typically less than three seconds.
Attempts to reduce the Pentobarbital were associated with an increase in ICP as measured by the ICP monitor, but no real change in the EEG.
HR:  84 BPM.
Long-Term Monitoring 6/26-27/04
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. During a brief section of this 24-hour epoch, the Pentobarbital is turned off, but unfortunately the EEG is also off at the same time.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is markedly suppressed.  There are sections of the record with burst suppression identified lasting up to 20 seconds with periods of activity, which are extremely low voltage and are in the order of one to two seconds in duration.  The Pentobarbital is turned off at 6:00 AM on the 27th.  Unfortunately, this is the same period of time when the EEG is unplugged. When the EEG is plugged back in at 8:00 AM, there is no discernable cerebral activity at this time, just artifact.
HR:  110 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Transition from a burst suppression background to a record that is essentially lacking in cerebral activity.  These results must be put into further clinical context in terms of reduction rather than an increase in her Pentobarbital coma.  In the setting of elimination of Pentobarb, this would suggest a decline in worsening cerebral function.
Long-Term Monitoring 6/27/04
MEDICATIONS: Multiple pressors and Pentobarbital.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. This is day two of a 72-hour monitor.  Pentobarbital was discontinued at 2:30 on the 27th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is low voltage and diffusely suppressed.  When the data is reviewed with an ECS montage at 10:45, there is very slow delta identified in the posterior regions, some of which represent a single channel.  The Pentobarb is discontinued at 12:27 but even prior to the discontinuation of the Pentobarbital, there is some artifact picked up in the record, but no definite cerebral activity.  The patient was disconnected at 4:50.  Prior to that time, there is artifact seen in the background, but no definite cerebral activity.  The heart rate at this time is 120 BPM.
HR:  120 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.	Absence of definite cerebral activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG recording continued for two hours after the discontinuation of the Pentobarbital.  The background remained markedly suppressed without evidence of improvement.
OVERALL IMPRESSION: Abnormal baseline and long-term video EEG monitoring due to:
The presence of prominent epileptiform activity in the baseline EEG with independent epileptiform activity from either hemisphere and more marked slowing on the right compared to the left.
Development of a burst suppression pattern with the use of Pentobarbital.
Ultimately, the absence of cerebral activity, which can be identified even after the Pentobarbital was discontinued.




