History:	47 year old woman with a history of SAH with subsequent seizures.
Medications:	Keppra, Dilantin, Versed
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~13 hours from 04/30/2015 till 05/01/2015.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  Early in the recording, the background consists of a mixture of
attenuated polymorphic theta and delta activity admitted with diffuse sleep-spindle-like waveforms
and periods of discontinuity.  As the recording progresses, faster frequency appear and voltages
increase.  Additionally, diffuse, frontally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology appear.
These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag, become more prominent during
periods of arousals and are higher in amplitude over the left.
Additional continuous polymorphic delta activity and underriding fast frequencies are noted over
the left anterior quadrant.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate, improves as the recording progresses
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left anterior
Breach artifact, left anterior
Triphasic waves, frequent, better formed over the left
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal ~13 hours continuous video EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing,
continuous left anterior quadrant focal slowing and triphasic waveforms. Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. It improves
as the recording progresses.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion over
the left anterior quadrant.  Breach artifact is secondary to a skull defect.  Triphasic waves are a
nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in hepatic encephalopathy, uremia and anoxia.
Triphasic waveforms are better visualized over the left in this patient secondary to a skull defect
over the left.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.




