History:	35 YO FEMALE FOUND DOWN FOR UNKO9WN AMOUNT OF TIME. HEAD CT
SHOWED LARGE RIGHT FRONTAL INTRAPARENCHYMAL ACUTE
HEMORRHAGE WITH INTRAVENTRICULAR EXTENSION AND MIDLINE SHIFT
Medications:	Keppra, Vancomycin, Labetalol
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for18 hours from 06/14/2015 to 06/15/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 7Hz alpha rhythm, which is best seen on the left.
Background activity is predominantly irregular 50-75uV, 6-7Hz activity.  During drowsiness, the
background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the
alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further
to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right hemisphere maximal in the
midtemporal region. There is an associated loss of faster frequencies over this region.  Intermittent
polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 96
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked, right hemispheric, Maximal midtemporal with
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of continuous focal slowing in the
right hemisphere maximal in the midtemporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural
lesion in this region. In addition there is  intermittent focal slowing in the left anterior temporal
region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.
Lastly, there is moderate  diffuse background slowing.  This finding is indicative of mild diffuse
cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are
present.





