CLINICAL HISTORY: 57 year old right handed woman with severe heart failure, status post aneurysm clip, past history of epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote, Dilantin, Midazolam, Propofol, Phenobarbital
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG is performed at bedside using
standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. This section of continuous EEG monitoring concludes at 7:29 on the 29th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Due to some technical issues, the patient was
recorded throughout the day with more than 1 EEG monitoring device. There are multiple ictal patterns noted early in the day with repetitive seizures or persistent sharp waves from the left hemisphere with a generous field of spread in the left mid to anterior temporal region, sometimes F3.
By 3:00 in the afternoon, there is a relatively continuous homogeneous pattern of a left frontotemporal sharp wave with some double phase reversing artifacts given the craniotomy. The sharp waves clearly have an aftergoing slow wave and can be differentiated from the patient's background EKG. The intensity of the sharp waves is 1.75 Hz. The sharp waves end abruptly at 4:40. Of note, the midazolam was discontinued at 2:46.
After 4:40, the background EEG is initially markedly suppressed and then gradually at about 7:00p.m. there is more rhythmic activity. By 7:30 when this epoch ends, using slow paper speed, there is a very slow focus of sharply contoured activity emerging at C3.
IMPRESSION: This is an acute post craniotomy patient with craniotomy defect which may contribute to some of the patterns described above. These results were discussed with the clinical team after hours on the 29th.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In the initial hours of the EEG, the patient is in status epilepticus with recurrent seizures characterized by repetitive, ictal activity from the left frontotemporal region. The EEG terminates abruptly at approximately 11:30 and just as that starts to happen, the epileptiform activity is starting to abate. In the early evening hours that include this record, the patient receives the phenytoin load, the Depakote loaded. At approximately 11 p.m. when the seizures have not stopped, the transition is made from a midazolam drip, a high concentration (information not provided) and transition to propofol is made. Phenobarbital is initiated with loading doses at approximately 1 a.m. These loading doses include 130 mg IV push, 1470 mg IV push, and another 735 mg.
At 4 a.m., the epileptiform activity is starting to slow down and there are sections of the record with suppression lasting up to 7 seconds.
While there is clearly an improvement in the record, there are bursts of epileptiform activity emanating out of a burst suppression and these are identified at 5 a.m. At 5:15 a.m., again the epileptiform activity is in pronounced bursts with shorter periods of suppression. The EEG electrodes are removed at 5:42 for a CAT scan.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: This patient with recent status epilepticus entered a relatively suppressed background with some rhythmic activity in the left frontocentral regions noted overnight on the 29th. By the morning of the 30th, the background EEG was quite suppressed. By that time, the patient was on phenobarbital and propofol only.
The propofol was weaned around 9:00 a.m. and high amplitude sharp waves were noted intermittently and then in bursts from the left frontotemporal region.
Additional medical management was not available at the time of this dictation. Despite the craniotomy defects, there does appear to be an ictal discharge from the left hemisphere at 11:38. Intermittent brief seizures are noted. The phenobarbital and midazolam are adjusted and additional recording in the early evening on the 30th identified brief bursts of epileptiform activity in a burst suppression pattern. Bursts of
epileptiform activity may last seconds but on occasion include 15 seconds in duration.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG, which began on the 31st and continued on the morning of the 2nd.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD: To summarize the patient's narrative course, she
required treatment with multiple doses of medications. She was tapered off the
midazolam and remains on propofol on Saturday 04/30 which was discontinued on May 1. Between May 1 and May 2, she was managed with phenobarbital. Her neurological impairment improved a bit in terms of presence of some cranial nerve findings, she remains intubated and comatose without motor signs.
April 30 to May 1: With the elimination of the propofol, the burst suppression pattern disappears and there are intermittent bursts of sharp waves.
May 1 to May 2: After propofol was discontinued, bursts of activity are noted some of which are more prolonged and some of which must be considered brief seizures noted from the hemisphere including left frontal and temporal regions. These occur out of a burst suppression pattern.
No clinical seizures are noted. The EEG on the morning of the 2nd at 5:30 a.m. is considerably more continuous although no changes in medications were made.
The EEG at the conclusion of this dictation at 1:20 p.m. with more clear a burst suppression pattern, but out of the burst suppression pattern, epileptiform activity with repetitive sharp waves, spikes or faster frequency activity is noted primarily left frontal more than frontotemporal region.
HR: 90 bpm
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.
The patient had received propofol intermittently on the night of May 1 into the morning of May 2 and the propofol was used intermittently in the sections of the record just at the beginning of this EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Over the course of the evening, the patient
received intermittent doses of Ativan and at 4:00 a.m. Throughout much of the afternoon of May 2, there is an intermittent burst suppression pattern. When there is ictal activity, there are bursts of high amplitude left frontal or frontotemporal sharp waves in the region of the patient's craniotomy.
By 5:40 on May 2, although it is a burst suppression pattern, there is more epileptiform activity and there is intermittent continuity. Bursts and trains of epileptiform activity are noted out of the burst suppression pattern and at times it is suppressed on the right, but
not on the left where there are frontal sharp waves or spikes.
In the evening of May 2, the patient develops tremulousness of the right hand. The hand is also noted to be cool. Review of the video at the bedside identifies tremulousness with the activity. The tremulousness in the right hand noted at midnight does not correlate with the epileptiform activity and in fact , there is trembling artifact noted which spans the epileptiform activity. In other words, it is seen when the EEG is suppressed.
Midazolam drip is initiated at 4:00 a.m., titrated up to 4 mg per hour and then down to 2. There is a brief epoch at 8:00 a.m. where the EEG is continuous and slow. This is likely the section as the midazolam drip is titrated upward. Unfortunately, blood pressure declines and the midazolam is reduced.
At a midazolam drip of 2 mg per hour, the EEG is in burst suppression, but there are actually some sections between 4 and 2 mg where it is not burst suppression and it is relatively continuous, but without prominent epileptiform activity. This section of the record ends at 11:30 a.m. as the nurse tries to turn the midazolam completely off and the EEG starts to be somewhat more continuous with frontal sharp waves.
HR: 138bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Prominent burst suppression pattern.
2. Intermittent seizures noted even out of a burst suppression pattern.
INTERIM CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG demonstrates ongoing, markedly
epileptiform pattern.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. The medications in this section of the record include a midazolam drip, which is tapered up and down in this 24-hour section. In addition, glucosamine 400 mg per day and phenobarbital are utilized.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The majority of this EEG includes a burst
suppression pattern, which is at times continuous. On some occasions, particularly in the evening on May 3, 2011, the EEG becomes more continuous and as it does so bursts of left frontal sharp waves are observed. Even when the record is much more discontinuous there are intermittent left frontal or frontal temporal sharp waves or spikes
typically occurring in bursts. In addition, particularly in the early morning sections on the May 4, 2011 there are sections where there is a burst suppression pattern, but a significant decrease in epileptiform activity.
HR: 114 bpm
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: This epoch shows increasing continuity. The right hemisphere demonstrates variable quantities of theta and delta There is a left frontal spike and slow wave or sharp and slow wave complex. As medications are adjusted, the epileptiform activity appears in bursts.
Around 11:00 a.m. on May 5, 2011 paroxysmal bursts are noted and then there is more of a pattern of sustained activity noted by 2:14. The primary activity is left frontal and those sharp waves do not necessarily build up, but there are also quite prominent sharp waves T3 and F7.
HR: 120 bpm
INTERVAL IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: This section of the record
demonstrates an increasingly continuous EEG. Unfortunately, it also demonstrates significantly more epileptiform activity, although most of the time this is not demonstrating prolonged paroxysmal bursts. The pattern described above is, however, potentially an ongoing ictal pattern after 11:35 a.m.

INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using
standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed. The patient is intubated and minimally responsive.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Frequent, left frontal spikes and sharps are noted. The overall EEG is continuous. Although there are no clinical seizures and no definitive epileptic seizures, there is brief build up of sharp waves and rhythmic frontal delta. Stimulation of the patient does not clearly activate the record.
HR: 120bpm
INTERVAL IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: This section of the record
demonstrates an increasingly continuous electroencephalogram. The epileptiform activity is prominent, but is no longer evolving.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG was performed at bedside using
standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient's midazolam was stopped prior to this section of the record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Much of the EEG includes a pattern with frequent left frontal sharp waves. There are brief sections, including at 10:00 p.m., where the epileptiform activity decreases substantially. Although there are brief bursts, there are no frequent, sustained ictal discharges.
HR: N/A
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: This continuous video EEG monitoring
session demonstrates a prominent epileptiform focus which appears to be abating by the end of the recording.



