REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 63-year-old female with a past medical history of asthma, hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and left subarachnoid with intracerebral hemorrhage, with right-sided residual weakness as well as a cerebellar stroke in 2009, presents with seizures; in the ER had 2 more.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, topiramate.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded awake and drowsy.  Activating procedures included photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that, at best, reaches 6 to 7 Hz and is seen best over the right hemisphere.  There is no normal frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures including photic stimulation produce no abnormal discharges.  Overall, the background consists of diffusely slow theta rhythm, seen best over the right hemisphere and not well over the left hemisphere.  There appears to be some state changes, but no typical or classic sleep architecture.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal sharp waves seen frequently at O1 and sometimes at O2 in wakefulness and drowsiness.
Focal slow waves seen over the left hemisphere, maximal in the mid to posterior temporal region.
Generalized slow waves at 5 to 7 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts, seen continuously throughout the recording.
Heart rate:  66.
Seizures:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left occipital sharp waves as well as left posterior temporal/mid-temporal focal slowing attenuation, in addition to generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the left occipital region.  In addition, there is evidence of left posterior temporal and mid-temporal focal cerebral dysfunction, which is consistent with the known previous hemorrhage.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  No seizures were seen.



