CLINICAL HISTORY:  An 85-year-old woman, presented on April 1st, found down, not moving left side with right gaze deviation.  Prior right hemispheric strokes.  Right hand twitching noted on April 2nd.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenytoin, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was relatively somnolent.  This was a technically acceptable EEG with most impedances below 5 kilohms, although there was a fair amount of muscle artifact.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the initial sections of the record, the patient has eyes opening with a low voltage pattern on the left and intermittent rhythmic delta noted from the right.  As the recording continues, there are rare sharp waves noted from the right hemisphere with phase reversal at F8, T2.
This is followed by bursts of rhythmic delta from the left, which is relatively sustained with bursts of rhythmic slowing in the left frontotemporal region with admixed T1 T3 sharp waves, of approximately 8 seconds duration.  Shorter bursts are noted lasting on the order of 4 seconds duration.  In later sections of the record, there is a glimpse of 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm noted on the left, not the right.
Heart rate:  Irregular, 84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Initially, focal slowing noted from the right hemisphere with rhythmic delta in the right central region.
Independent, more paroxysmal bursts of sustaining rhythmic theta noted from the left hemisphere particularly the anterior temporal region most commonly either a 4 or 8 seconds of in duration.
Independent left and right temporal sharp waves.
The right temporal sharp waves appear as isolated discharges, but the left temporal sharp waves appear within the bursts of rhythmic mixed theta delta.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No clinical seizures were noted.  There were no prolonged ictal discharges.  The most prominent rhythmic slowing and epileptiform activity is on the left.  These findings should be correlated with the clinical scenario for this relatively obtunded geriatric.




