History:	66 year old woman with a history of seizures, dementia, prior strokes, now is
admitted after a convulsion.  Patient's mental status remains altered.
Medications:	Lovenox, Protonix, Levothroid, Tegretol
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, lethargic
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  With stimulation, polymorphic theta and delta activity
appears.  The background is frequently discontinuous.  No normal sleep architecture is present but
periods of quiescence are observed.
Frequent polymorphic delta activity is noted over the bifrontal regions.  This activity is at times
rhythmic but without clear spacial or temporal evolution.  Frequent bifrontal spikes are noted.
Maximal scalp negativity occurs over Fp1, Fp2, F7 and F8 electrodes.  At times, these discharges
become rhythmic (bi-PLEDs) at ~0.75 Hz (examples at ~10:54:24 am and at the end of the
Bradycardia with heart rate <60 bpm is noted on a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, frequent, moderate, bilateral frontal
Discontinuous background, frequent
Spikes, frequent, bilateral frontal
BiPLEDs (bilateral periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges, intermittent, bilateral frontal,
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 23-minute EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing, focal bifrontal slowing
and frequent bifrontal epileptiform discharges that at times become rhythmic (bi-PLEDs) without
clear evolution into ictal runs. Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing and frequent epileptiform discharges
in the bifrontal regions are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the bi-
frontal region.  No electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the




