CLINICAL HISTORY:  Aneurysm: status post coil of left ACA aneurysm with right PCOM aneurysm, right anterior choroidal artery coming off the PCOM and persistent fetal circulation of the right posterior cerebral artery.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, fentanyl, propofol, desflurane, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Intraoperative EEG monitoring was performed in the angiography suite using standard CEA montage with 1-channel of EKG.  Recording began at 08:21 in the morning and concluding at 11:37.  One physician in the OR present was provided for 1 hour with 1 hour of physician remote review during the procedure.  The recording began with the patient awake and concluded while the patient was still under anesthesia.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  At the beginning of the record when the patient was awake, there was a 10.5 hertz alpha rhythm and the overall background was symmetric.  With the induction of anesthesia, the EEG demonstrated background slowing.  Intermittent asymmetries were noted with some focal slowing in the left hemisphere with some sharply contoured slowing on the left posterior region.  In addition, the burst suppression pattern was at times somewhat discontinuous.  Even in the long prodrome prior to any manipulation of the patient's intracranial circulation, at times, the EEG was a bit more attenuated during suppressions on the right relevant to the left.
The operative team was updated with the EEG findings including the burst suppression pattern noted on EEG as well as the attempts made by Anesthesia to adjust anesthetic medications to provide a more continuous pattern.
Stents were deployed at 10:43.  While the EEG demonstrated a burst suppression pattern.  No changes were noted at that time.
The surgeon prepared to place coil at 10:54.  The EEG remained discontinuous, although was a little bit more continuous.  Changes were made at 11:00 a.m. with additional changes in the utilization of the wires and changing of the catheter.  The EEG remained with the burst suppression pattern.
A second coil was placed at 11:19.  EEG pattern at that time with the burst suppression pattern and again no changes were noted in this already discontinuous pattern.
Recording continued into the end of the procedure at 11:37.  At that time, the EEG is again discontinuous.
Heart rate 60 to 80 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  EEG monitoring during the placement of shunt and multiple coils was remarkable for a discontinuous pattern compatible with an anesthetic effect.  No changes were noted with the procedures
described above, but as indicated, in the absence of a continuous pattern, these findings may be of limited value.



