CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 54-year-old man with history of hypertension and hyperlipidemia and diabetes who presents with change in mental status associated with slurred speech.
MEDICATIONS:  Unknown.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed using a standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is a 7.5-8 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 5-6 Hz diffuse theta activity intermixed with 3-4 Hz delta activity noted during this recording.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is also intermittent and at times rhythmic high amplitude polymorphic delta activity noted in the left frontotemporal region.
During wakefulness and drowsiness, there are bursts of frontal intermittent delta activity seen with a frequency of 1-2 Hz and amplitude of 50-70 microvolt lasting for 2-3 seconds.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple frequencies and results in no driving response.  Heart rate was 100 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background activity and posterior dominant rhythm.
Presence of FIRDA bursts.
Left hemispheric slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing could be due to metabolic, toxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  The hemispheric slowing could be suggestive of an underlying structural abnormality in the left hemisphere.  The FIRDA bursts could be due to increased intracranial pressure, metabolic encephalopathy, or a deep midline lesions in the brain or degenerative brain disease.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures are identified in this record.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  Note that the patient is tachycardic.



