History:	37 year old male with seizures and history of left frontal encephalomalacia.
Medications:	Propofol, phenytoin
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  There is excessive bifrontal beta activity.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Attenuation, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Beta, excessive, bilateral diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  diffuse background slowing and attenuation, absent alpha
rhythm, and excessive beta activity.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of
moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction as well as pharmacological sedation.  Excessive beta activity
may be a medication side effect.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.





