CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 34-year-old woman admitted for long-term monitoring due to increased seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Lamictal, and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed in the Long-term EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
RANDOM WAKEFULNESS AND SLEEP:
In wakefulness, the background EEG is symmetric and low voltage.  There is a 9 Hz, 20 V posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity.   Generous amounts of muscle movement artifact are seen in this record.  In random sleepiness, independent temporal sharp activity was seen in the left and right temporal areas in drowsiness.  The patient had a relatively good quantity of sleep during the monitoring, which is characterized by slow rolling eye movements, mixed frequency, vertex waves, spindles, and K complexes.  A small amount of stage III sleep was also observed by higher amplitude delta activity.
EVENT:  One event occurred on October 1, 2003 around 7:30 PM: The patient was in bed eating something, moving her hands and neck normally.  At 19:32:14, she suddenly put her hand to her chest and began to push the button. At that time, the patient seems to look to the right side aimlessly.  According to the nurse’s note, the patient was crying with some salivation, thrashing in bed, and crying “mommy.”  The episode lasted for about two minutes.  Vital signs remained stable with a heart rate of 96 or 97, before and after the event.  Generous amounts of artifact due to muscle movement obscured the observation of epileptiform activity.  At the end of the episode, the patient fell into a light sleep with occasional independent right and left temporal sharp waves.
HR: 78 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Occasional independent right and left temporal sharp activity in drowsiness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: One episode was recorded during this 48-hour tracing.  Due to generous amounts of movement artifact obscuring the epileptiform activity, continuous long-term monitoring may be able to record more episodes as well as provide further information to reveal focal features.  The independent right and left temporal sharp waves may be a partial mechanism for this patient’s epilepsy.  Continuous long-term monitoring with reduced AED level is recommended.




