CLINICAL HISTORY:  46 yo man with previous right frontal hemorrhage, subsequent left frontotemporal hemorrhage, with recurrent seizures, coma, progressive mass effect, shift, and edema.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, fentanyl, phenytoin, vancomycin, phenobarbital, Keppra, and Zosyn.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG recording was performed in the ICU at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1-channel EKG.  Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.  During this 24-hour section of the record, the patient went off the monitor for a craniectomy and then was rehooked.  In addition, an episode of tonic stiffening was reported at approximately 5:00 a.m.  Unfortunately, the patient with disconnected at this time.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The initial hours of recording demonstrate a markedly abnormal pattern with a pattern that is slow on both sides with generous beta.  Medium amplitude delta is noted on the left with discrete sharp waves noted in the left hemisphere including left central parietal and mid to posterior temporal.  There is some variability in the amount of delta noted in the background.  Over the course of the recording additional sharp waves are noted in the left central parietal region.
Between 2:00 and 5:00 p.m. in the afternoon, there is an increase in sharp waves noted.  Despite some artifacts,  discrete lower amplitude sharp waves are noted in the left posterior, temporal, and parietal regions with some fast activity at F7T3.  These were noted almost continuously and without significant evolution from 2:00 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. and then between 5:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. the electrodes were removed for the OR.  On reviewing this data in an average reference, there is a fast component at T3, the amplitude of the discharge in average reference can be highest anterior temporally or with more of a fast component T3-T5 and considerably less involvement at P3.  This activity was reviewed at faster frequency.  It is periodic in nature but does not show frequency evolution as one would expect in a seizure.
Following the craniectomy, the epileptiform activity is considerably more blunted, though localization is unchanged.  Discrete sharp waves were noted again posterior temporal or parietal but without the same periodicity.
Heart rate:  120 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This 24-hour section of EEG monitoring was remarkable for:
Periodic epileptiform activity in the left temporal region with variability often posterior temporal maximum.
A decrease in the periodic activity following the craniectomy.
Marked background slowing.
Focal delta in the left hemisphere.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No seizures were recorded.  This EEG supports a very irritative process on the left, which improved following the craniectomy.



