:
History:	76 year old woman found unresponsive yesterday.  She was found to have PEA.
Diffuse body jerks were noted this am.
Medications:	Depakote, Propofol at 20, Vecuronium 8 mg total during the study
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic
theta<<delta activity and diffuse frontally predominant polyspikes.  As the recording opens,
polyspikes are low in amplitude and infrequent. As the recording progresses,  they gradually
increase in frequency, amplitude and duration.  Clinically, they are associated with diffuse body
jerks.  Four brief (~20 seconds) clinical and electrographic seizures are captured.  Clinically patient
has diffuse body jerks that rapidly evolve into rhythmic clonic movements of upper extremities.
Patient is given vecuronium at the time of the last seizure, so no movement is identified with that
event.  Electrographically, the first 3 seizures are characterized by diffuse EMG artifact. Patient is
paralyzed at the time of the fourth seizure.  That seizure starts with moderate amplitude diffuse
polyspikes that evolve into a mixture of diffuse 8-10 Hz  activity with underriding low amplitude fast
activity.  At the end of the seizures, rhythmic ~ 3 Hz diffuse delta activity is seen accompanied by
the underriding fast activity.  After each seizure, frequency, duration and amplitude of polyspikes
decrease dramatically.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There is no change in the background
activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, few, ~20 second each, generalized
Polyspikes, abundant diffuse
No reactivity
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, severe
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 1 hour EEG in a comatose patient due to severe diffuse slowing, lack of
reactivity, frequent diffuse epileptiform discharges (clinically associated with generalized body jerks)
and 4 brief generalized seizures. These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of marked
diffuse cerebral dysfunction and profound cortical excitability and in a patient with post-anoxic
brain injury indicate low likelihood of full neurological recovery.  These findings were conveyed to
the neurology consult team and to the primary team at the time of the recording.  Patient will be
placed on a long-term EEG monitoring.





