History:	54 year old female with persistent encephalopathy.
Medications:	levetiracetam, lacosamide
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The background is characterized by bilateral slowing in the theta range. There is a fragmentary
posterior dominant rhythm reaching 7-8Hz that is reactive to eye opening.  There is an excessive
amount of beta seen in the frontocentral region bilaterally.  Stage I and Stage II sleep are seen.
During sleep there is the appearance of spikes within the right temporal region.
There is intermittent focal theta slowing over the right temporal region during wakefulness..  There
are nearly continuous right temporal periodic epileptiform discharges over the right temporal region
that appear during sleep.  These are maximal at F8-T4.  These spikes disappear with the transition
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  Throughout wakefulness, the patient
exhibits repetitive orofacial chewing movements that are not associated with ictal brain activity.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right frontotemporal
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), intermittent, right frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG due to diffuse slowing, focal right temporal slowing, and
right temporal PLEDs. These findings suggest diffuse brain injury or a toxic metabolic
encephalopathy. Focal slowing and right PLEDs suggest a structural brain injury with epileptiform
potential.  The orofacial movements are not associated with ictal discharges and are non-
epileptiform events, perhaps orofacial dyskinesias.  These findings were conveyed to the primary
team. to waking.




