History:	64 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O FOUND DOWN, SZ W/B/B INCONT AND
BLOOD SUGAR OF 500. PMHX SIG FOR LT CVA
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for42 hours from 09/27/2014 to 09/29/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Frequent focal sharp waves are present with phase reversal and
amplitude maximum at T4, T3 and O1/O2. The temporal sharps were not seen in the last 24 hours.
Multiple electrographic seizures were seen at O1/O2 lasting ~ 2 minutes. They begin with
rhythmic sharp waves that increase in frequency and amplitude and then suddenly stop. They
remain in the occipital region with no spread.  No clinical correlate was seen on video.  The
occipital electrodes became disconnected at 11:50PM. No seizures were noted since then.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  Hr was 84
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, frequent, bilateral (L>R) occipital, electrographic stopped after 10 hours.
Sharp waves, intermittent, bilateral (R>L) temporal, mid
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, severe diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  multiple electrographic seizure arising from the occipital
region.  This finding is indicative of an epileptogenic focus in the occipital region. In addition there
were  frequent epileptiform discharges in the midtemporal (right more than left ) region.  These
findings are indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region. Lastly there is  diffuse
background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific
indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.



