AGE: 30 y.o.
SEX: male
DATE OF STUDY: 10/01/2015 RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Outpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, Awake and sleep 95819 EEG # : 15- 1445
HISTORY:
a 30 y.o. male with a history of epilepsy since birth referred for routine EEG:
Seizure description: SPS- Sees lights for seconds then he losses his vision but can talk within less than 5 minutes. This is followed by a metallic taste in mouth. Denies tongue biting or bladder incontinence. Last June 25th. One seizure per 2-3 months. Focal MRI - encephalomalacia in the left frontoparietal and temporal lobes with associated small component of arachnoid cyst.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
levetiracetam (KEPPRA) 500 mg tablet, Take 1.5 tablets by mouth 2 times daily.
alendronate (FOSAMAX) 70 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth every 7 days. Take with full glass of water, on empty stomach, do not eat, drink, or lie down for 30 minutes.
lamotrigine (LAMICTAL) 200 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.
Calcium Carbonate-Vit D3-Min (CALTRATE 600+0 PLUS MINERALS) 600 mg calcium- 400 unit Tablet, Take 2 tablets by mouth daily.
Cholecalciferol, Vitamin 03, (VITAMIN D) 1,000 unit Tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.
No current facility-administered medications for this visit.
SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG, HV and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient.
Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 11 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.	The waking background is low voltage with frequent eye flutter
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
There are normal sleep transients, with synchronous sleep
spindles and rare K-complexes present during Stage II sleep. Slow wave sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.	No focal slowing is present. EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is performed for 180 seconds with good cooperation and produces mild diffuse symmetric background increase in amplitude as well as symmetric frontal theta/delta.
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces symmetric photic driving, which is a normal finding.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is a normal Awake and asleep routine EEG.	There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: ·
This is a normal, low voltage Awake and asleep routine EEG.
A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.
This EEG contrasts to prior EEGS which demonstrated focal and /or generalized features:
2010: Background slowing
2005:	(9/14/2005)
Disruption of faster frequency from left hemisphere particularly in the temporal regions as well as increase in background slowing from left
A handful of bursts of sharply contoured slowing from the left
A single, well defined high amplitude sharp wave from the front.




