History:	46 Y/O FEMALE H/O CEREBELLAR AVM S/P EMBOLIZATION,PRESENTS WITH
HEADACHE, FEVER AND NECK STIFFNESS. NURSE THINKS PT MAY BE HAVING
SEIZURES. SEEN THIS AM R EYE GLAZE AND NOT RESPONDING .
Medications:	5 VERSED,50 FENTANYL,10 VECURONIUM,20   PROPOFOL    KEPPRA
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 19 hours from 12/21/2015 to12/22/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the attending neurologist for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse very
low voltage delta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.
There is a slight asymmetry seen continuously with more pronounced slowing and decreased
amplitude over the right hemisphere particularly the temporal region.  No normal sleep architecture
No focal slowing is present.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no EEG background
reactivity to auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli. Some muscle artifact could be seen.  Hr was 120.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, severe diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of continuous focal slowing and attenuation in the right
hemisphere maximal in the temporal region.  This finding is indicative of a focal structural cortical
lesion in this region. This can be seen in the setting of ischemia, subdural collection or after
seizures.  In addition there is severe  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These
findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.






