History:	46 y/o man with MR and epilepsy since birth here for EMU monitoring,
Medications:	Keppra, Lamictal
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 19 hours from 03/02/2015 to 03/03/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. All automatically detected events
were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	4
Description of pushbutton events
See report
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse delta
activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  As drowsiness
progresses, symmetric vertex waves appear.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to
moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.  During
sleep there are intermittent rhythmic frontal theta discharges that last for seconds without any
evolution or clinical correlate.
No focal slowing is present.  Day1:Seizure #2 at 7:08PM, Seizure #3 at 9:37 PM, Seizure #4 at
4:34AM Day2: Seizure #5 7:22AM -Three seizures: All from sleep stage 2, all preceded by a K
complex. The EEG reveals a sudden diffuse attenuation followed by diffuse muscle  artifact on the
EEG. Clinically the patient wakes up form sleep and exhibits bilateral arm and leg extension with
tonic stiffening with an associated low guttural moan. After the first two events the patient appears
to be slightly agitated.  During seizure#4 the patient appears to have slightly asymmetric tonic
posture and after starts rocking back and forth kicking his legs in the air, does bicycle type
movements and screams. He appears to be very agitated for about 50 seconds.  The EKG during
the episode appears to change and have a right bundle branch block with a HR of 170.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  Hr was 60
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Seizure diffuse, Tonic
Seizure diffuse, Frontal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  two tonic seizures and one possible frontal seizure in
addition to  diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are consistent
with a symptomatic generalized epilepsy and moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.






