CLINICAL HISTORY: 58 year old female with right carotid stenosis.
MEDICATIONS: Midazolam, Lidocaine, Etomidate, Fentanyl.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The CEA carotid montage is employed. Patient has a previous left occipital infarct.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: There are sections of the record with wakefulness with a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm. In the perioperative record, there is some focal slowing noted from the right mid to posterior temporal region. Head rocking artifact is noted from both hemispheres.
The time at which the patient received anesthetic medication is not documented in the record. Based on the EEG, induction of anesthesia likely took place at 2:41. Induction of anesthesia produces rhythmic slowing in the background. Initially, immediately after induction, there is some artifact on the right and the right may, in fact, be a little slower.
Heparin is given at 4:38.
The carotid is clamped at 4:38:20. In the first second after the carotid is clamped, there is a transient 1-second discontinuity.
There is a subtle asymmetry noted following placement of the clamp. While both hemispheres are a bit slower following clamping of the right carotid, there is a very subtle difference with a bit more slowing on the right compared to the left.
At 5:27, the background EEG becomes discontinuous with a burst suppression pattern. There is no indication on the record that the patient has had a change in sedative hypnotic medication.
Recording concludes at 5:33, at which point the EEG is more continuous but not completely.
HR: 84 bpm
IMPRESSION: EEG monitoring during this right carotid endarterectomy is concerning due to:
1. Focal features on the right which seem to have increased in association with the clamping of the carotid.
2. A discontinuous pattern at conclusion of EEG recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: In the patient with bihemispheric strokes and a challenging EEG, additional evaluation may be warranted.



