
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 53-year-old female, who was admitted for change in mental status.  She has a history of diabetes, hypertension, depression, and breast cancer.

MEDICATIONS:  Insulin, Haldol, lorazepam, labetalol, vancomycin, aztreonam, lisinopril.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  At 11:22:17 a.m., there is a seizure onset at 9-10 Hz alpha activity, maximum in left occipital region (01) with spread to left posterior quadrant and right occipital region, after 20 seconds seizure activity continues as 4-5 Hz theta activity maximum in left posterior quadrant for 40 seconds.  This activity was followed by sharply contoured delta activity with bihemispheric distribution for 90 seconds.  It was followed by postictal attenuation noted in bihemispheric region.  Clinically, patient did not show shaking or jerking, but per video patient seemed less responsive with eyes closed.  Towards the end of this recording, there were left periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges noted in left posterior quadrant region lasting for several minutes with no evolution. There was almost continuous left posterior quadrant slowing almost continuous noted during this recording.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to;
1. Electrographic partial seizure originating from left occipital/left posterior quadrant region.
2. Left posterior quadrant slowing.
3. Left periodic lateralized epileptiform

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Focal slowing is a consistent with functional or structural abnormality in left posterior quadrant. PLEDs (Periodic Lateralized Epileptiform Discharges) are consistent with left hemisphere structural lesion (tumor, infection, and stroke). It could also be due to a post-ictal state. One episode of electrographic focal seizure is consistent with partial epilepsy in the setting of Hx of seizure. Clinical correlation and long-term monitoring are recommended.




