REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with anterior temporal and single lead electrocardiogram electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin, rifampin, simvastatin, evase (?), lisinopril, metformin, gabapentin, glipizide, ranitidine, carbamazepine, calcium.
HISTORY:  This is a 59-year-old woman with a history of epilepsy as well as childhood seizure and a previous craniotomy, left occipitoparietal craniotomy here with an EEG due to recurrent seizures.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some T3 and A2 electrode artifact.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to diffusely slow background, however, in the limited wakefulness, she has a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta.  The patient does appear to go into stage I deeper stages and stage II deeper stages of sleep.  However, the architecture is slightly atypical.
Activating Procedures:  Specifically, hyperventilation accentuate the abnormal discharges which I will describe in the next paragraph.  However, photic stimulation produces no abnormal discharges.
Abnormal Discharges:
Focal sharp waves seen at T3, at times at T5 and sometimes at 01 occurring during sleep mainly, but sometimes during  wakefulness.
Focal sharp waves seen intermittently at T4.
Focal slow waves seen frequently at F7-T3, at T3, at T5 and at O1 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.   There is increased amplitude and increased frequency consistently with a breach rhythm over that region.
Focal slow waves seen at T4 intermittently at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
Please note that the focal slowing at times occurs in burst lasting up to 5-6 seconds that appear to be very high amplitude and with intermixed sharp waves specifically over the left hemisphere.
Heart Rate:  84, regular.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left posterior quadrant sharp waves and frequent focal slowing associated with breach rhythm as well as right mid temporal sharp waves and focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal structural dysfunction and irritability in the left posterior quadrant, which is consistent with a known lesion in that region.  In addition, there is evidence of right mid temporal focal cerebral dysfunction and irritability which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  Overall, this EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with multiple roci of irritability.  No clear seizures were seen during this recording.



