CLINICAL HISTORY: 40 year old right handed male with a history of epilepsy, congenital hydrocephalus and syncope coming from 1 week ago with an episode of passing out for 5 minutes.  His seizures were described as hot flashes, increased blood pressure, nervousness with no loss of consciousness, but feeling confused during the period.
MEDICATIONS:  Tegretol, Losartan-Hydrochlorothiazide, Solifenacin, Tamsulosin, Simvastatin, Albuterol, Omeprazole, Advair, ASA, Ibuprofen
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures including photic stimulation and hyperventilation were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm at 9-10 Hz with a very voltage.  There is a burst of rhythmic theta for 2 seconds with increased amplitude and sharply contoured mostly on the left side and a normal amount of beta seen in the frontocentral regions.  The patient appears to go to the stage 1 sleep.  Activating procedures including hyperventilation and photic stimulation produced no abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Burst of theta with a hard amplitude and sharply contoured waves on the left side.
Irregular bilateral frontal dominant spike and waves for 3 seconds.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Burst of rhythmic theta waves with sharply waves on the left side.
Irregular bilateral frontal spike and waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG shows a general mechanism of epilepsy.  It is more irregular than one would expect to see in a generalized epilepsy.  The photic paroxysmal component suggests inherited trait for epilepsy.
The irregular bursts of rhythmic theta waves on the left side with the sharply waves and irregular frontal dominant spike and wave for 3 seconds may be in fact indicate the frontal epilepsy with secondary generalization.  This EEG differs from the previous study which showed a focal slowing and focal epileptiform activities.



