REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 46-year-old woman with first episode of seizures and a known left occipital AVM.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with addition of anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during lethargy and confusion.  No activating procedures were performed.   Continuous spike detection software as well as seizure detection software and nurses' notes as well as patient alarms were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  During the last 8 hours of the recording, there was multiple electrode artifact as they were detached.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record remains without background which has a very seldom posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 7-8 Hz.  There are no activating procedures and there is some frontal central beta seen.  Overall, however, is mainly diffusely slow and a theta 5-7 Hz frequency.  Some sleep architecture can be seen.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen continuously at T5 at a frequency of 1-2 Hz in a monomorphic fashion consistent with periodic lateralizing epileptiform discharges (PLEDs).
Focal slow waves are seen over the left hemisphere, maximal at T5 continuously throughout the recording at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
Generalized slow waves at 5-7 Hz is seen throughout the recording continuously.
SEIZURES:  The patient had multiple electrographic seizures that would appear to arise from the left hemisphere, maximally over the posterior temporal region at T5 intervals and a delta rhythmic discharge that increases in frequency and amplitude and becomes better formed until it suddenly stops.  This first seizure occurred at 10:43:18 a.m. and ended at 10:45 a.m. A second similar seizure occurred at 4:21:57 p.m. and ended at 4:25:51 p.m. and the last seizure occurred around 10:50 p.m.  At that point, multiple electrodes had been lost which made it difficult to evaluate the origin of the seizure but appeared to be similar to the other ones.  Please note that during none of these seizures there appeared to be a clinical correlate.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal electroencephalogram due to left hemispheric seizures arising possibly from the left posterior temporal region in addition to left posterior temporal periodic lateralizing epileptiform discharges and focal slow waves in addition to generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with multiple seizures arising from the left hemisphere, likely posterior temporal region.  In addition, there is evidence of acute structural  in the left posterior temporal region.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction which is nonspecific in regards to etiology.  These findings were continuously reported to the primary team to make adjustments in treatment based on the seizures.



