History:	79 year old man with a history of stroke with left sided weakness, abdominal mass,
hospice, now with recurrent brief staring events.
Medications:	Oxycodone and others
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, lethargic, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm reaches 8-9 Hz activity.  The AP gradient is weak.  Additional
diffuse polymorphic theta and delta activity is captured.  Frequent brief (2-5 second) bursts of 100-
200uV, 1-2 Hz rhythmic bifrontal slow waves occur throughout the recording, increasing in
frequency during drowsiness.  No normal sleep architecture is present but periods of quiescence are
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.  A single EKG lead demonstrates irregular heart rate.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, moderate, left temporal, anterior
Cardiac arrhythmia
FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)
No epileptiform discharges
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 22-minute EEG because of mild-to-moderate diffuse
slowing and intermittent focal left anterior temporal moderate slowing. Diffuse slowing is indicative
of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Focal slowing
is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural
in origin.  FIRDA could be seen in encephalopathy, increased intracranial pressure, bilateral deep
white matter lesions.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine EEG does not rule out a
clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.  A single EKG lead demonstrates irregular heart rate.


