TYPE OF STUDY:  Sleep deprived EEG.
DIAGNOSIS:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 66-year-old right-handed woman with history of epilepsy since age 12.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include carbamazepine, aspirin, and gabapentin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the laboratory using a standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Photic stimulation and hyperventilation were performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness and drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 8.5-9 Hz in frequency 30-40 microvolts in amplitude seen in the occipital regions, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is excessive theta rhythm at 6-7 Hz during wakefulness.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontal central beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  There are intermittent bursts of left temporal F7-T3 slowing during wakefulness and drowsiness at 2-2.5 Hz in frequency lasting for 1-2 seconds.  There are also intermittent burst of similar bitemporal slowing at a F7/T3 and F8/T4 lasting for 1-2 seconds.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response.  Hyperventilation results in diffuse slowing, most prominent in left temporal region.  The heart rate is 60 beats per minutes and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing wakefulness through drowsiness due to left temporal and bitemporal slowing and excessive theta during wakefulness.  No epileptiform activities noted during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Excessive diffuse slowing during wakefulness is consistent with a diffuse encephalopathy and may be due to postictal state.  Other causes include metabolic, toxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Bitemporal slowing is suggestive of bilateral structural abnormalities or bilateral cerebral dysfunction, left side worse than the right side.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures are identified in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures if clinically indicated a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or continuous bedside EEG or ambulatory EEG monitoring may be helpful.



