CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 49-year-old man with a past medical history of untreated HIV, who now presents with at least 3 witnessed generalized tonic clonic convulsions with resultant in poor mental status.  This EEG was recorded to evaluate for subclinical seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional single EEG lead, medical staff notes, and nursing staff notes were reviewed.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Fragmented unstable 8-9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm is captured bilaterally.  There is no clear anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Additional polymorphic theta and delta are captured.  Delta is more pronounced anteriorly.  Additionally there is paucity faster frequencies over the right hemisphere, especially anteriorly.  Voltage attenuation is present over the right mid temporal region.  Sleep architecture consisting of sleep spindle-like wave forms that are more pronounced over the left hemisphere is captured.  K-complexes are captured as well.
Throughout the recording, especially with stimulation, rhythmic and semi-rhythmic 2.5 to 3 Hz polymorphic delta activity is observed over the right hemisphere, predominantly over the right anterior region.
On several occasions 30-60 second events consist of delta activity with underriding low amplitude rhythmic 1 to 2 Hz low amplitude sharp waves.  There is no clear evolution of these discharges.  Video review does not demonstrate a clear clinical correlation, although patient appears to be awake during these episodes.
At approximately 6:40 a.m. on October 12, 2012 the patient has a clinical episode of mouth twitching.  Only the left side of the patient's face is visible on the video.  He has rhythmic high frequency mouth twitching that lasts approximately 2 minutes and persists even throughout the patient's coughing episodes.
Electrographically there is a frontally predominant EMG artifact that is more pronounced over the left hemispheric leads. This episode likely represents a seizure.
FINDINGS:  Several probable electrographic seizures characterized by low amplitude right mid temporal rhythmic sharp waves without clear clinical correlation and a single episode of 2 minutes of rapid rhythmic mouth twitching with associated EMG artifact on the EEG.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24-hour video EEG due to:
Mild to moderate diffuse slowing and disorganization.
Focal right hemispheric slowing that is more pronounced over the anterior region.
Focal voltage attenuation over the right mid temporal region.
Likely several clinical and electrographic seizures.
Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific cerebral dysfunction.  Focal slowing over the right hemisphere may represent an underlying structural abnormality.  There is likely epileptogenic focus over the right mid temporal region.
When compared to the EEG from October 10, 2012 to October 11, 2012, this recording shows no significant change in the background, persistence of occasional right mid temporal electrographic seizures and a new seizure type characterized by rhythmic mouth twitching.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



