History:	67 year old man who presents with change in mental status.  Patient had a
witnessed tonic-clonic seizure.
Medications:	Keppra and ? Lamictal; Ativan 2 mg during EEG
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy
Description:
During maximal arousal, the background consists of unstable moderate amplitude polymorphic 8
Hz theta activity, poor AP gradient, polymorphic theta and delta activity as well as monomorphic
diffuse theta and delta activity.  During sleep, the background is characterized by a mixture of
moderate voltage theta and delta activity.  During sleep, the background is characterized by a
mixture of moderate voltage theta and delta activity.
Frequent excess delta activity is observed over the bifrontal regions.  Intermittent multifocal sharp
waves, spikes and polyspikes are captured.  High amplitude sharp waves and spikes are seen over
T3/T5, C3/P3 leads; also moderate amplitude sharp waves and spikes are captured over T4/P4
lead and  synchronous sharp waves and polyspikes are noted over the bifrontal region.  These
epileptiform discharges are mostly present during drowsiness and sleep.  A single run of high
amplitude 2-3 Hz rhythmic left T5/C3/P3 spikes are observed during drowsiness/ sleep.  There is no
spatial or temporal evolution.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral frontal, moderate
Spikes and sharp waves, intermittent, bilateral multifocal, left temporal/ parietal; right
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 43 minute EEG due to mild-to-moderate diffuse slowing;
intermittent bifrontal moderate slowing and intermittent multifocal (left temporal/ parietal; right
temporal/parietal and bifrontal) epileptiform discharges that are seen primarily during drowsiness
and sleep.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Intermittent focal slowing is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in origin.  There are several independent
potentially epileptogenic foci.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.






