REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 53-year-old man with history of stroke with left sided weakness with recent increase in seizure frequency described as sudden body jerks 3-5 times per day.
MEDICATIONS:  Folic acid, levetiracetam, aspirin, Crestor, carbamazepine, lisinopril.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures included photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Posterior dominant rhythm reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontal central beta seen best over the left hemisphere.
Activating procedures, including photic stimulation, produce no abnormal discharges.  Some drowsiness and stage 1 sleep could be seen.
Heart rate:  72.
Abnormal discharges:
Frequent sharp waves are seen at F8/T4 with a field that sometimes goes to F4.  At the same time sharp waves are also seen at F7/T3 with also a frontal field at times that may even spread to FP1.
Focal slow waves are seen over the entire right hemisphere with associated attenuation which appears to be maximal at F8/T4 with a frequency of 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20 mV.
Focal slow waves are also seen over the left hemisphere at F7/T3 intermittently at a frequency of 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-60 mV.
Seizures:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to right frontal temporal and more than left frontal temporal sharp waves, as well as right hemispheric focal slowing with intermittent left anterior temporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures possibly arising from either frontal temporal regions.  In addition, there is evidence of focal structural cerebral dysfunction over the right hemisphere maximal in the anterior temporal region consistent with a known stroke.  Lastly, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left anterior temporal region, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology.  No seizures were seen.
Note:  The previous EEG that was performed on 11/11/2010 revealed some of the right temporal sharp waves, but also some generalized frontally predominant spike or wave which appeared to be maximum on the left which was not clearly seen today.



