CLINICAL HISTORY:  Lung CA, COPD, craniotomy for meningioma. 2 week history ongoing CPS
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, Decadron, Dilantin and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous EEG monitoring was performed in the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The initial sections of the record has significant technical problems with lots of electrodes which were replaced at approximately 9 a.m. The patient received a loading dose of phenobarbital on the morning of 10/29 at 9:30 a.m. and the EEG resumed at approximately 10 a.m.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  As the recording begins shortly after 10 a.m., the patient appears to have received 500 mg of phenobarbital. The EEG demonstrates a diffusely slow pattern. There is an asymmetry with a bit more focal slowing from the right. There is significant EKG artifacts and occasional right temporal sharp waves.
Between 10-11 AM there are bursts of rhythmic theta, notably at 11:37 but these discharges are no associated with prominent clinical changes
As the recording continues, over the course of the day, the patient is increasingly awake and alert. By 2:17 p.m., there is some sharply contoured rhythmic theta activity noted on the right.
Over the course of the evening recording, again there are some issues with electrode placement and the EEG is somewhat more limited. Focal slowing is noted from the right hemisphere, but no electrographic seizures were identified and the EEG was interpretable despite the technical limitations.
On the morning of the 30th, the patient remains awake. No electrographic seizures were noted. The EEG is slow with focality, a breech rhythm and a little bit more rhythmic data on the right.  Occasional bursts of sharply contoured theta are noted from the R central region but no frank seizures were recorded
Heart rate i 90 to 100 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG was remarkable for:
Initially no valuable data in the 1st several hours of recording when the patient is having clinical seizures.
More subtle seizures in the AM on 1/29
Focal slowing and some sharp waves as well as some rhythmic theta, but no additional electrographic seizures after the administration of 500 mg of phenobarbital.
Some background slowing noted even from the left at the close of the recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG demonstrates resolution of the patient's status epilepticus.



