History:	42 year old woman with a history of seizures, now presents in status epilepticus.
Medications:	KEPPRA, VIMPAT, DEPAKOTE, PHENOBARBITAL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 09/01/2015 till 09/02/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no clear PDR or AP gradient.  During wakefulness, the background consists of polymorphic
diffuse theta and delta activity activity.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Sleep spindles and
K-complexes are captured.  Sleep spindles are better formed over the right hemisphere.
Continuous moderate amplitude 1 Hz left temporal PLEDs-plus are captured.  Maximal scalp
negativity occurs over the T3 lead and sharp waves have a broad field.  Intermittent electrographic
seizures are captured throughout the recording from 9:01 am till 10:26 pm.  Maximal seizure
frequency: up to 2 per hour.  There is no clinical correlate.  Average seizure duration is ~ 90
seconds.  Seizures start with low amplitude fast activity over the T3 lead.  1 Hz PLEDs-plus are
replaced by rhythmic ~1.5 Hz left hemispheric delta activity that also spreads throughout the right
Various EEG leads demonstrate artifact throughout the recording.
Summary of Findings:
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour EEG due to (1) moderate -to-severe diffuse slowing; and
(2) continuous 1 Hz left temporal periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs-plus) and (3)
intermittent left midtemporal focal electrographic seizures that occur up to 2 times per hour and
stop by 10:26 pm (after initiation of phenobarbital).  There is a focal left hemispheric structural
cerebral abnormality, especially over the left temporal region, that contains an epileptogenic focus.
Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect, such
as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.
hemisphere.





