History:	71 year old female with a known left ICA occlusion and left hemispheric strokes,
undergoing IR-guided right ICA stenting.

No stent was placed since no significant right ICA stenosis was identified.
Medications:	Lidocaine, pressors
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy
Description:
At baseline, there is right to left interhemispheric with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right hemisphere consists of low amplitude 9-10 Hz alpha activity with
preserved AP gradient.  The background over the left hemisphere consists of polymorphic moderate
amplitude 9 Hz alpha activity, additional continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity with
unstable AP gradient.  Most pronounced theta and delta activity is present over left temporal
region.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Sudden change in the background is noted at ~40
minutes into the recording.  Electrographically, diffuse underriding moderate amplitude delta
activity and, more prominent, bursts of diffuse frontally predominant high amplitude delta activity
(FIRDA)  appear.  Additionally, no eye blinking artifact is identified.  This change lasts ~ 3 minutes
with rapid nearly complete resolution of underriding delta activity.  Similar change but to a lesser
degree re-appears ~ 3 minutes later and lasts ~ 6 minutes.  It gradually resolves and for the rest of
the recording the EEG background remains at the baseline.  Clinically, the first EEG change is
associated with blood loss, decrease in systemic blood pressure and unresponsive patient.  The
background improves once pressors are initiated and blood pressures improve.
Periodically extra p-waves are noted on a single EKG lead.  This change corresponds to
paroxysmal atrial flutter noted on the EKG by the anesthesia.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric, mild-to-moderate, most over the
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, occasional, moderate, 2 discrete periods, lasting 3 and 6 minutes
Cardiac arrhythmia
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL ~1.5 hours continuous intraoperative EEG (monitored remotely) due to two
episodes of transient diffuse slowing that correspond to decrease in systemic blood pressures and
decrease responsiveness in the patient. These changes correspond to global cerebral
hypoperfusion.  The operating physician was notified immediately of the changes.  Continuous
focal slowing in the left hemisphere and, especially, over the left temporal region indicate focal
cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology.  In this patient this slowing corresponds to known
left hemispheric strokes.  Paroxysmal atrial flutter is noted on a single EKG lead.


