CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 65-year-old woman who underwent left parieto-occipital mets resection approximately 3 weeks ago.  She now presents with change in mental status and weakness and generalized convulsions.  Subsequent EEGs showed nonconvulsive seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, phenobarbital, Versed, and Decadron.
CONDITIONS OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single lead EKG lead.  The recording was performed continuously.  Video capabilities were activated.  Medical staff notes and nursing staff notes were reviewed.  The recording was reviewed on multiple occasions throughout the 24 hour recording period.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior-posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms at higher amplitudes over the left hemisphere.  The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity with intermittent periods of discontinuity.  As the recording progresses, the amount of diffuse theta increases.  This corresponds to discontinuation of Versed drip throughout the day.  No normal sleep architecture is observed.  Bursts of diffuse spindle-like waveforms are captured.  Continuous sharp waves with after-going slow waves occur periodically and semi-periodically (PLEDs and quasi PLEDs) at approximately 1 Hz.  Occasionally these epileptiform discharges are accompanied by __________.  No electrographic seizures are captured.
FINDINGS:
No seizures.
Continuous semi-periodic and periodic approximately 1 Hz sharp waves and after-going slow waves, PLEDs and quasi PLEDs.
Moderate diffuse slowing that decreases as the recording progresses, this is likely related to the discontinuation of Versed.
Focal left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left posterior quadrant.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal continuous 24-hour video EEG monitoring due to moderate diffuse slowing, periods of discontinuity, focal left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left posterior quadrant, and continuous semi-periodic and periodic epileptiform discharges in the left posterior quadrant.  Diffuse background slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific cerebral dysfunction, possibly related to infarct related and medication effect.  Focal left hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the left posterior quadrant, and epileptiform discharges emanating from the left posterior quadrant indicate focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology and consistent with the patient's history of recent left parieto-occipital tumor resection.  No electrographic seizures are captured.  When compared to the recording from the prior 24 hours, the degree of slowing is overall less.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



