History:	55 YEAR OLD FEMALE WITH A HISTORY OF EPILEPSY, ONSET TEN YEARS
AGO.
Medications:	Phenobarb, Keppra, Zocor, Lorazepam, Prilosec
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Intermittent polymorphic theta/delta activity is present in the left temporal region (F7/T3) during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness, and post-ictal period.  An episode of behavioral changes
characterized by confusion and unresponsiveness (noted by the EEG technician) correlated with an
electrographic seizure over the left temporal region .  The electrographic seizure is recorded
beginning with rhythmic 5 Hz activity in the left anterior and mid temporal region and evolving into
3 Hz delta activity in the left temporal region lasting about one minute.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates focal
slowing in the left temporal region.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.  HR is 60.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, left temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, left temporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of 1) Intermittent focal slowing in the left
temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-
specific, but possibly structural in origin.  2) A clinical and electrographic seizure arising from the
left temporal region.  This finding is indicative of an epileptogenic focus in the left temporal region
and is consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy.



