History:	76 year old woman with a  history of left MCA stroke in 11/2014, subsequent focal
left frontal status epilepticus in 11/2014 and a convulsion in 3/2015.  Patient now
has diffuse body tremors and persistently poor mental status.
Medications:	Keppra, trileptal, Klonopin, Remeron
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, lethargic, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic moderate amplitude 9 Hz alpha activity.
AP gradient is poor.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 4-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-
7Hz slow waves appear diffusely.
There is paucity of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere.  Severe low-to-moderate amplitude
poorly formed sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are seen over the left midtemporal region.
Maximal scalp negativity occurs over the T3 lead.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.  An irregular heart rate is present on a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, few, left temporal, mid, T3 maximally, poorly formed
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left hemispheric
Disorganization, mild
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 25 minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing and
disorganization; (2) continuous focal left hemispheric slowing and (3) several poorly formed left
midtemporal epileptiform discharges. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal
structural lesion over the left and is consistent with patient's history of left MCA stroke.  There is a
potential epileptogenic lesion in the left midtemporal region.  Patient was placed on a continuous






