CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 55-year-old male with refractory epilepsy, admitted with possible infection and increasing seizures.
MEDICATIONS:
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG and seizure and spike detection software.  The patient was supervised throughout the EEG.  He was noted to be confused.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In apparent wakefulness, the background EEG is relatively low voltage, somewhat slow with generous beta and a glimpse of a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  Drowsiness is characterized by an increase in beta.
Interictal epileptiform detections:  Intermittent epileptiform detections were noted including left anterior temporal sharp waves.  There is some lower voltage more discreet left frontotemporal sharp waves some of which have a slight spread to the right.  Rare, sharp waves were noted from the right temporal region.
Focal slowing:  Occasional focal slowing was noted from the left hemisphere which may be anterior temporal or more remarkable on the right posterior quadrant.
Push buttons:  There were 3 push buttons at 10:11, 5:52 and 7:48.  The 1st and the 3rd push buttons were practice push buttons by the nurses.  At 5:52, the patient was noted to be crying and agitated.  No epileptiform abnormalities were noted.
At 11:49:  The patient had a behavior not captured by aide or the computer.  He says i-i-i-i and has tonic extension of the left hand and then both hands.  The EEG demonstrates a normal awake pattern at that time.
Electrographic seizures.  None.
Heart rate 78 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This 48 hour EEG monitored monitoring session is remarkable for:
1. Multiple push button events without an EEG signature and with characteristic behaviors including crying and agitation which suggests a problem other than uncontrolled seizures.
2. Interictal epileptiform activity primarily from the left hemisphere, but occasionally seen on the right.
3. Focal slowing on the left.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The focal features and the epileptiform features may be correlated with imaging.  In this individual who was thought to have poorly controlled epilepsy, no electrographic seizures were identified.



