DATE OF THE RECORDING:  02/05/2013 from 9:00 a.m. until 02/06/2013 until 8:00 a.m.

LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  Approximately 22 hours.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 31-year-old woman with a history of seizures from approximately 3 to 4 years of age until approximately 12 years of age, treated with Dilantin.  The seizures stopped at approximately 12 years of age.  She developed generalized tonic clonic convulsions approximately 1 year ago.

MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include Keppra 500 mg in the morning and 250 mg in the evening, lamotrigine 50 mg twice a day, Seroquel, Zoloft, and others.

CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single electrocardiogram lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The patient was continuously monitored on continuous video audio EEG monitoring.  Spike detector and seizure detector alarms were activated.  The patient was provided with a pushbutton.  Medical staff notes and nursing notes were reviewed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of moderate amplitude 8.5 to 9.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During sleep symmetrical vertex waves, sleep spindles, K-complexes, slow wave sleep and several  epochs of REM sleep are captured.  Occasional bursts of polymorphic variable amplitudes of theta and delta activity are captured over the left anterior temporal region.  This slowing was prominent during drowsiness and appears to resolve during later stages of sleep.  No clear epileptiform discharges were captured.  There was continuous electrocardiogram artifact.

FINDINGS:
1. Occasional mild left anterior temporal slowing.
2. No epileptiform discharges.
3. No typical events.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 22 hour continuous video audio EEG monitoring due to occasional mild left anterior temporal slowing.  This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  No typical events were captured.  There were no clear epileptiform discharges.



