CLINICAL HISTORY:   61 year old man with history of CAD, CABG in 1995, COPD, hepatitis B virus, bilateral PEs, hypertension, who presents with respiratory failure and altered mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  Zosyn, vancomycin
REASON FOR STUDY:  Altered mental status.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  No activating procedures were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 6 Hz, which does not appear to be reactive to eye opening.  There is not a normal amount of frontal central beta.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.  No activating procedures were performed.
During the recording the patient is stimulated, but there appears to be no clear change in the record.  At times intermittently there is periods of faster frequencies coming through the background, but this does not appear to be due to stimulation and it just occurs for seconds.  It may represent arousal.  Overall the background is also consistent with some abnormal discharges, which I will discuss in the next paragraph.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-70 mV.  In addition, there is intermittent triphasic waves seen throughout the recording.
There is also some sharply contoured transient that are maximal in the midline prefrontal, as well as vertex region.  However, this has more of a metabolic/triphasic morphology and does not appear to be epileptic.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
generalized slowing and triphasics.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology.  However, the presence of triphasics suggests a metabolic component to this encephalopathy.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.



