History:	69 year old woman with a history of seizures, stroke and TBI.
Medications:	Depakote, Prozac, Luminal, Atorvastatin, Remeron, Others
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude up to 10 Hz
alpha activity.  There is normal AP gradient.  Bursts of diffuse polymorphic theta and delta activity
are present.  Symmetrical vertex waves and sleep spindles are captured.
Intermittent polymorphic bilateral anterior temporal theta and delta activity is capture, left> right.
Additionally, occasionally semi-rhythmic delta activity is noted over the left anterior temporal
region.  This activity occurs during drowsiness and  sleep.  Several low-to-moderate amplitude left
occipital spikes are captured during drowsiness and sleep, with maximal scalp negativity over the
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
induces symmetric photic driving at multiple flash rates.  Occasional premature QRS complexes are
captured on a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral (L>R) temporal, anterior, mild-to-moderate
Spikes, few, left occipital, captured during drowsiness/ sleep
Sleep, stage 2
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and asleep 41 minute EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, intermittent
mild-to-moderate focal bitemporal, left>right, focal slowing and several left occipital epileptiform
discharges. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  Some degree of temporal slowing is considered normal in individuals after the age of
65, but the amount of focal slowing in this patient is excessive.  Focal slowing indicates focal
cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  Left occipital epileptiform discharges are
indicative of a potentially epileptogenic focus in this region.

