CLINICAL HISTORY:  60 year old male, status epilepticus on August  4, 2012, ESRD, with a  2 to 3 year history of epilepsy.  The patient has a history of multiple head traumas.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Topamax, Phenobarbital
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  No clinical seizures were reported by the team during this section of the record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is abnormal.  The patient is often quite drowsy, but there is a glimpse of a 7 Hz alpha rhythm present bilaterally, left more so than right.  Breach rhythm was noted in the right hemisphere with accentuation of beta in that region as well as some right central delta.  As the recording continues, the patient is more consistently awake.  He is awake in the middle of the night with a rapid heart rate of 120 bpm and frequent PVCs.
Seizure time 3:28 a.m.  This develops after the tachycardia.  The nurse enters to check on the patient with the tachycardia, and then the rhythmic theta builds up at 3:28:45.  The nurse does not appear to have identified any clinical seizures in association with the rapid heart rate, although she is looking at a monitor, away from the patient, not at the patient.  There are a total of 3 seizures noted in this section of the record on August 5 through August 6.  These include 3:32 a.m. on August 6, 8:02 a.m. on August 6, and 8:13 am.  The nurse is with the patient at 8:02.  The patient is responsive during the seizure but cannot talk and seems to be indicating that he feels tremulous.   A fourth seizure occurs at 8:45 a.m., with the patient watching television.  Cognitive testing is performed and he has some what seem to be purposeful movements of his lower extremities.
IMPRESSION:  EEG monitoring for this patient with a complex partial status epilepticus was remarkable for significant improvement over the course of 48 hour video EEG monitoring, but he still continued to demonstrate brief left frontal seizures which seemed to produce a feeling of tremulousness and speech arrest with relatively preserved cognition.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is diagnostic of a localization related epilepsy.



