HISTORY:
A 63-year-old woman with complex partial epilepsy, mesial temporal sclerosis, prior pontine stroke Paroxysmal vertigo,
Dix Hall-Pike testing negatives.
INTRODUCTION:
Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement With one-channel EKG.
The patient reports feeling very drowsy, lightheaded and dizzy during the EEG
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:
In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with an 11 Hz alpha rhythm and a small amount of low voltage,
frontocentral beta. Drowsiness is characterized by slow rolling eye movements In wakefulness, there is a single burst of
sharply contoured mixed theta delta from the left temporal region. In addition, there are additional other isolated, similar
bursts in relaxed wakefulness with a T1 sharp wave.
Photic stimulation elicits a driving response It also seems to either be elicited or occurs Simultaneously with additional
left temporal focal slowing.
In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with an 11 Hz alpha rhythm and a small amount of low voltage,
frontocentral beta. Drowsiness is characterized by slow rolling eye movements In wakefulness, there is a single burst of
sharply contoured mixed theta delta from the left temporal region. In addition, there are additional other isolated, similar
bursts in relaxed wakefulness with a T1 sharp wave.
Photic stimulation elicits a driving response It also seems to either be elicited or occurs Simultaneously with additional
left temporal focal slowing.
Heart rate 60 BPM.
IMPRESSION:
Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Left temporal focal slowing occurring in bursts.
2 Rare left temporal sharp waves
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
8-04-11 2:21pm p. 2 of 2
The left temporal focal slowing and sharp waves were a bit more prominent at the end of the record as the patient became
drowsy
These may be interictal findings in a patient with epilepsy. The overall background was relatively unremarkable. Of note,
at the close of the record, vertex waves were noted, which were somewhat asymmetric and that may be due to electrode
placement or this patient's other comorbidities



