History:	84 yo man with Left Occipital hematoma. He has intermittent episodes of agitation.
Medications:	Dilantin, seroquel
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm reaches 9 Hz polymorphic alpha activity.  Posterior dominant
rhythm is less well defined and lower in amplitude (>50% interhemispheric asymmetry compared to
the right) over the left.  The AP gradient is unstable.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz
activity is present throughout the recording and increases during drowsiness.  Frequent brief (2-5
second) bursts of 100-200uV, 2-4Hz rhythmic bifrontal slow waves (FIRDA) occur throughout the
recording, increasing in frequency during drowsiness.  No normal sleep architecture is present but
periods of quiescence are captured.
No epileptiform discharges are present.  Patient had intermittent bilateral and right leg twitching
throughout the recording.  It was not associated with an abnormal EEG correlate.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce additional abnormalities.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Attenuation, left posterior
FIRDA (frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity)
No electrographic seizures
No stage 2 sleep
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 21-minute EEG because of mild diffuse slowing,
disorganization and voltage attenuation over the left posterior quadrant. Diffuse slowing and
disorganization are indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically
nonspecific.  Voltage attenuation over the left posterior quadrant indicates focal cerebral
dysfunction, possibly secondary to fluid collection between a skull and brain (such as subdural
hematoma, empyema, etc).  Patient had intermittent bilateral and right leg twitching throughout
the recording.  It was not associated with an abnormal EEG correlate.


