History:	66 year old with a right ICH and seizures.  Patient is status post right craniotomy.
Medications:	Keppra, Ativan, Dilantin
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower
waveforms over the left.  The background over the left is attenuated and consists of polymorphic
very low amplitude theta and delta activity seen primarily anteriorly as well as frequent periods of
brief background discontinuity.  The background over the right consists of a mixture of polymorphic
low-to-moderate amplitude mixture of theta, delta and alpha activity and frequent periods of brief
background discontinuity.  Additionally, ventilator artifact is present throughout the recording.  No
normal sleep architecture was present.
Multiple right hemispheric (midtemporal-central focus) seizures are captured.  They last on
average ~ 60-70 seconds.  At the end of some of the seizures (example at ~10:27 am) rhythmic
mouth/ lower face jerking is seen.  Electrographically, seizures start with ~2 Hz moderate amplitude
rhythmic delta over the right midtemporal region.  This activity gradually increases in frequency
and amplitude and spreads throughout the right hemisphere (  maximal scalp negativity over T4,
C4, P4 electrodes).  Additionally, frequent 1-2 Hz quasi-periodic right midtemporal/ centro-parietal
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  A single EKG lead demonstrates irregular heart rate.
Summary of Findings:
Breach artifact, right frontotemporal
Cardiac arrhythmia
Pseudoperiodic discharges, right, midtemporal/ centro-parietal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, severe
No reactivity
Status epilepticus, right, right midtemporal/ centroparietal
Artifact, other, continuous, ventilator
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL portable 34-minute EEG due to severe diffuse slowing and frequent right
midtemporal/ centro-parietal focal seizures (focal status epilepticus). Diffuse slowing is indicative of
severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific, but at least partially related
to the medication effect.  There is focal epileptogenic structural abnormality over the right
midtemporal/ centro-parietal region.  A single EKG lead demonstrates irregular heart rate.  Breach
rhythm is secondary to the skull defect.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult
team at the time of the recording and patient was placed on continuous EEG.
sharp waves (quasi-PEDs) are noted.






