CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 48-year-old woman with previous epidural hematoma, intracranial stenosis, s/p pial synangiosis; recurrent subdural collection. Prior cerebrovascular accidents, right frontal craniotomy. Now with right hand twitching.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Baclofen, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  The patient was drowsy.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG demonstrates a dynamic pattern in slow delta, but also with bursts of beta.  There is an asymmetry. The activity on the left has less faster frequency activity and is a more featureless.  Stimulation of the patient produces an alerting with alpha and beta frequency activity from the right.
As the recording continues, there are some spontaneous arousals noted.
The technologist is able to see that the right hand twitches.  The technologist uses a hand monitor.  The hand twitching is not always associated with an alerting response.
No epileptiform features are noted in this EEG and none are seen in association with the twitch.
As the recording continues, the patient intermittently arouses.  With arousal, a more well-defined awake pattern is seen intermittently of the right, but the left  remains slow and attenuated.
There is a single burst of sharply contoured slowing from the right hemisphere.
Heart rate 60 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
A slow and attenuated pattern on the left.
A sedated patient, but with intermittent arousals and with those arousals, a better defined background with minimal background slowing is noted.
No EEG correlate for hand jerks.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The left hand twitching was not associated with an EEG correlate.  There was only a single burst of sharply contoured slowing on the right and the right hemisphere appears to be relatively intact in this very sedated patient.  The left hemisphere demonstrates an attenuated and slower pattern.  The patient's CVA’s or SDH collection may play a role in this.



