DATE OF STUDY:  October 3, 2014 through October 5, 2014.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 53-year-old woman with a 2-year history of convulsions.  Eyes roll around, foaming at the mouth.  History of hypertension, epilepsy, and anxiety.
MEDICATIONS:  Xanax.  ?None versus transient.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab/bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.  This report includes 48 hours of continuous video EEG monitoring using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  There were daily practice pushbuttons.  Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  October 3rd to October 4th:  In wakefulness, the background EEG includes a well-developed alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontal central beta.  In drowsiness, wicket activity as well as prominent, 5 hertz rhythmic mid temporal theta of drowsiness was noted.
Sleep was characterized by abundant beta activity and spindles.  Sleep was relatively fragmented and snoring was noted.
Seizures:  None.
Epileptiform Activity:  None.
Practice push buttons: 11:59 and 8 p.m.  No epileptiform features noted at this time.
EEG monitoring during this section of the record did not identify epileptiform activity.
October 4th to October 5th:  During this section of the record, the patient had 1 clinical event at 11 p.m. on the night of the 4th.
Background:  In sleep, there is abundant beta activity.  No transition in and out of sleep, rhythmic mid temporal theta of drowsiness was noted.  The awake record is well organized with symmetric reactive alpha rhythm.
Interictal epileptiform abnormalities:  None.
Epileptiform seizures:  None.
Event:  11p.m., the patient had been asleep.  She seems to be somewhat drowsy.  Prior to the event, significant noise can be appreciated in the hallway, which has made it difficult to sleep.  By 10:46, there is eye opening noted.  The event is at 11 p.m.  The patient is noted to be breathing heavily, somewhat restless.  The patient pushes the button.  The nurses enter the room.  The patient is breathing heavily.  She is not conversing with the nurses, but she is following commands.  Altered and somewhat peculiar behavior is noted and at 11:02, the patient is crying and moaning.  The patient is consoled by the nurses.  At 11:04, she is responding appropriately to the nurses, but she looks away from them.  The physician enters at 11:06.  Somewhat unusual behavior persists, although there is a great deal of movement artifact, which obscures the EKG.  The overall EEG demonstrates an awake pattern.  At 11:23, she remains tearful with a normal heart rate of 78 beats per minute.
Subsequently, the patient received a tablet of Xanax and transitions back to sleep.
Heart rate 74 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This EEG report includes the patient's final 2 days of continuous EEG monitoring.  It is remarkable for:
Two prominent normal, but epileptiform-appearing variants, rhythmic mid temporal theta of drowsiness in wicket.
A single spell with unusual behavior, hyperventilation, and cry, but with preserved awareness and without an EEG signature.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No epileptiform features were identified in this section of the recording.  If the behavior in question is typical of this patient's usual seizures, this session may have answered the clinical questions.



