History:	33 yr old male after a surgery, presents with events concerning for seizures (gaze
deviation and facial twitching).
Medications:	Keppra; Depakote, Ativan
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Description:
There is no PDR or AP gradient.  While awake, the background consists of a mixture of polymorphic
theta <delta activity.  Fragmented periods of quiescence/ sleep are characterized by background
discontinuity and diffuse sleep-spindle-like waveforms.
Focal right occipital seizures are captured.  Seizures last ~3 minutes.  Seizures start with repetitive
~ 3 Hz spikes over the right occipital region and spread throughout the right hemisphere with
reflection over the left hemisphere.  There is diffuse delta activity after seizures cease.  About 4
seizures are captured in the first 30 minutes of the recording.  They are associated with left facial
twitching.  Seizures stop at ~ 12 AM (related to administration of Ativan).  They recur at ~ 5 am at
several seizures per hour.  Once they recur, they are more focal and confined to to the occipital
region/ right occipital- parietal region (O2/P4 and O1 leads) and have no clear clinical correlate
Persistent  tachycardia is captured on a single EKG lead (up ~ 120-130 bpm).
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, right occipital, early in the recording, resolves with Ativan
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Seizure, intermittent, right occipital, several per hour by the end of the recording
Interpretation:
This is an abnormal >5 hours continuous video EEG due to (1) moderate-to-severe diffuse slowing
and (2) right occipital seizures that are more prolonged and frequent early in the recording and
improve with Ativan administration. Early in the recording seizures are associated with left facial
twitching.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate-to-severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically nonspecific.  There is an epileptogenic, likely structural focus, in the right occipital/
parietal (right posterior quadrant) region.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult





