AGE: 24 y.o.
SEX: male
DATE OF STUDY: 09/15/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Outpatient
EEG TYPE: Routine, awake and asleep EEG #: 15-1359
HISTORY:
24 y.o. male s/p gunshot wound to the head in 2014 and subsequent right hemiparesis, now presenting with 2 nocturnal GTC seizures (body stiff, LUE shaking).
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
gabapentin (NEURONTIN) 300 mg capsule, Take 1 capsule by mouth 4 times daily .
topiramate (TOPAMAX) 25 mg tablet, Take 25 mg in the AM and 50 mg in the evening.
acetaminophen (TYLENOL) 325 mg tablet, Take 650 mg by mouth every 6 hours as needed for Pain.
fluticasone (FLOVENT DISKUS) 50 mcg/actuation diskus inhaler, Inhale 2 puffs into the lungs daily.
trazodone (DESYREL) 50 mg tablet, Take 100 mg by mouth nightly.
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric and reactive . There is a 8.5 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, better seen on the right.	The right side is well organized; the left side has fair organization.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep transients, including vertex waves and spindles, are better formed on the right. Slow wave sleep is not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.
There is abundant left fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing. At times this slowing distributes diffusely. Other times it is more focal, seen over the left posterior temporal region (T5>T3 max) or left fronto-temporal region (F7/T3/F3).
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY :
1. Occasional left anterior temporal (Tl/F7 > T3) spike-wave discharges
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
Occasionally higher amplitude alpha activity is seen broadly over the left temporal region.
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation : Not performed
Photic Stimulation : Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes .
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 72 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake-and-asleep routine EEG due to:
Left hemispheric suboptimal organization, with suboptimally formed posterior dominant rhythm and sleep transients
Abundant left frontal and temporal polymorphic slowing, at times more broadly distributed; other times more focal over left posterior temporal or left fronto-temporal region
Occasional left anterior temporal (Tl/F7 > T3) spike-wave discharges
Occasionally higher amplitude alpha activity seen broadly over the left temporal region
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of multiple areas of left
hemispheric dysfunction, and left anterior temporal epileptogenic potentials . Higher amplitude alpha activity seen broadly over the left temporal region is likely a breach artifact and consistent with this patient' s known skull defects .



