History:	55 year old woman with a history of Hashimoto's encephalitis and seizures, now
presents with change in mental status.
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Awake & asleep, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, asleep
Description:
Patient is asleep throughout majority of the recording.  During 2 brief episodes of arousals, the
background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Please note, however,
that patient is seizing during both episodes of arousals.  During the majority of the recording the
background consists of attenuated excess beta activity, admixed with polymorphic theta and delta
activity and continuous quasi-periodic focal right anterior temporal/ central  spikes and polyspikes
(maximal scalp negativity over T2/T4, C4/P4)that occur with a repetition rate of 0.75-1 Hz (quasi-
PLEDs).  Frequent right hemispheric seizures (primarily tempo-central-parietal onset) are captured.
They last 11 sec up to 90 seconds.  These seizures start with disappears of right quasi-PLEDs and a
mixture of rhythmic polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Longer seizures progress to rhythmic right
hemispheric slow delta activity.  Two focal left hemispheric seizures are captured (~9:51 am and
10:05 am).  First seizure lasts ~ 80 seconds and second seizure lasts >2 minutes (the offset of last
seizure is not seen because the recording stops).  They start with rhythmic low amplitude theta
activity seen over P3 and O1 electrodes.  They rapidly spread throughout the left hemisphere with
maximal dipole concentrating on O1 lead.  Notably, right hemisphere continues to generate
independent seizures event during left hemispheric seizures (example 9:51:31 AM).  Patient is not
tested formally during any of the seizures.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, right, tempo-central-parietal, 11-90 sec
Seizure, two, left posterior
Pseudoperiodic discharges, continuous, right, tempo-central-parietal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild-to-moderate
Beta, excessive
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 22 minute portable EEG due to (1) mild -to-moderate diffuse slowing; (2) frequent
right tempo-central-parietal brief seizures (status epilepticus) and two independent left hemispheric
seizures with onset over the left posterior/ occipital region.  Of note, right hemisphere continues to
generate independent seizures event during left hemispheric seizures.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of
mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  There are two
independent focal bihemispheric structural epileptogenic foci, in the right tempo-central-parietal
region and left posterior/ occipital region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.
Patient will be placed on continuous EEG monitoring.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary
to the medication effect, such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.




