History:	An UNKNOWN female patient was found down with systolic blood pressure of ~250.
When the patient was weaned off propofol drip she was observed to have 4 episodes
of rhythmic right upper extremity shaking followed by secondary generalization.
Events stopped after administration of 2 mg of Ativan.
Medications:	Ativan 2 mg, Dilantin, Versed drip
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~17 hours  from 10/19/2014 till 10/20/2014.
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
The Persyst Reveal spike and seizure detection algorithm and AutoLearn neural network were
utilized to screen the EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is no PDR, AP gradient or normal sleep architecture captured.  The background changes
throughout the recording epoch.  Early in the recording, the background consists of bursts to
suppression pattern with frequent electrographic seizures.  Bursts last ~1-4 seconds with interburst
interval of ~4-7 seconds.  Bursts consist predominantly of low amplitude polymorphic  fast activity
anteriorly and moderate to high amplitude irregular sharp waves accompanied by low amplitude
fast activity (polyspike-like).  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over O1 and O2 electrodes but the
overall field is broad and  these discharges often appear generalized.  Seizures occur every other
minute at the beginning of the recording.  With increasing doses od versed, their frequency
gradually decreases and they stop around 9 pm.  Seizures start suddenly from the suppressed
background.  Seizures start with the activity that resembles the activity seen within the bursts.  There
is rapid build up of generalized rhythmic activity, especially over the bilateral occipital regions
(right>left).  Rhythmicity reaches ~ 3 Hz.  Majority of seizures end abruptly.  However, occasionally
(example at ~1:45:35 pm),  rhythmic 3 Hz occipitally predominant generalized gradually decreases
to ~ 1.5 Hz and stops but then low amplitude anterior quadrant  (right>left) rhythmic theta activity
appears and lasts ~ 5-10 seconds.  This activity is terminated by a burst of  activity seen in bursts
described above.  By ~ 9 PM, the background is no longer burst suppressed.  It consists of
generalized occipitally predominant epileptiform discharges (GPEDs) occurring at ~ 0.75 Hz with
brief periods of background discontinuity between the bursts.  GPEDs are  accompanied by
generalized polymorphic low amplitude fast activity.  As the recording progresses, they decreased in
amplitude, increase in frequency up to ~ 1Hz and low amplitude polymorphic theta activity appears
found between GPEDs is intermittently seen.

At ~ 12:25 AM, there is rapid change in the background characterized by diffuse voltage
attenuation.  This change corresponds with increase in versed drip dose.  There is progressive
voltage attenuation and replacement of faster frequencies with very low amplitude polymorphic
delta activity.  Epileptiform discharges are also not seen by the end of the recording.
There is no change in the background activity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli.  Sinus
tachycardia with heart rate up to 120 bpm is noted on a singe EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus, appears to be bi-occipital and generalized
Burst-suppression pattern, early in the recording
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, severe, by the end of the recording
Attenuation, by the end of the recording
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges) generalized, up to ~ 1 Hz, seen by ~ 9 pm and resolve by
No reactivity
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal 17 hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to burst-suppression, status
epilepticus, generalized diffuse slowing and generalized epileptiform discharges observed. These
findings indicate severe diffuse cortical dysfunction and highly irritable cortex, especially over the
bioccipital region.  Primary team was notified of the findings.




