History:	73 year old man with a known seizure disorder and right frontal tumor status post
craniectomy, now presents after a generalized convulsion, found to have focal
seizures on a routine EEG on 4/24/2015.
Medications:	Dilantin and Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for  ~24 hours from 4/25/2015 till 4/26/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The awake background consists of moderate amplitude 9.5-10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with
eye opening.  The AP gradient is weak.  During sleep, the background consists of a mixture of
polymorphic theta and delta activity.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral anterior regions during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Additionally, underriding fast activity is observed over the bilateral
anterior regions.  Frequent left prefrontal sharp waves are present.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs
over the Fp1 lead.  Several electrographic focal left frontocentral seizures are captured from
~11:25 AM till ~1:10 PM.  They last ~45-70 seconds and do not have a clear clinical correlate.
They start with moderate amplitude rhythmic somewhat polymorphic left frontocentral theta activity
(maximal over F3).  Longer ictal runs evolve into moderate-to-high amplitude ~4 Hz polymorphic
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There is significant Fp1 ad Fp2 lead
artifact starting at ~ 8 PM.  Patient pulls all of the leads off by ~ 3:30 am.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, intermittent, left anterior
Seizure, few, left frontal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, bilateral anterior
Breach artifact, bilateral anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL ~24-hour continuous video EEG due to continuous bilateral, right>left,
anterior moderate focal slowing, intermittent left anterior pre-frontal epileptiform discharges and
several 45-70 second left frontocentral very focal seizures without clear clinical correlate.  These

findings indicate bilateral pre-frontal cerebral dysfunction and epileptogenic focal structural lesion Fp1 sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves.
over the left pre-frontal/ frontocentral region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team
and patient's medications were adjusted.  Breach artifact is secondary to the skull defect.





