CLINICAL HISTORY: 54 year old right handed male with left carotid stenosis.
MEDICATIONS: Desflurane, Propofol, Vecuronium, Fentanyl, Lidocaine,
Phenylephrine
INTRODUCTION: Digital EEG was performed at bedside in the OR using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Recording begins at 7:59 in
the OR and concludes at 10:54 after patency has been confirmed and the clamp has
been removed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD; As the tracing begins, the patient appears to have
already received anesthetic medications. There is a mixed frequency background with
generous beta. There are some shifting asymmetries noted in this section of the record
prior to placement of the clamp. The asymmetry with a bit more rhythmic slowing is
noted on the left compared to the right but faster frequency activity is relatively
symmetric.
Heparin is given at 8:58. At that time, the EEG is subtly, bilaterally discontinuous. The
clamp is placed at 9:25. Of note, in the interim with heparin at 8:53 and some
fluctuations with the level of anesthesia and the placement of the clamp, there is a more
definitively asymmetric pattern, well-defined before the placement of the clamp with
dropout of faster frequency activity on the left compared to the right and a bit more
rhythmic slowing from the left compared to the right
The clamp is placed at 9:25:44. The common carotid is clamped 8 seconds later. The
changes in the EEG are observed with the appearance of rhythmic slowing on the left
and the shunt is placed at 9:28. The shunt is open at 9:28:43. The external carotid is
unclamped at 10:24.
The shunt is reclamped again at 10:21 without significant change in the EEG and then it
is reopened at 10:24. Again, no changes are noted in the relatively stable asymmetry
described above. At 10:43, the EEG becomes somewhat lower voltage. At the close of
the record, the activity is relatively stable with a mixed frequency background but, again,
with an asymmetry with a bit slowing activity on the left than the right.
HR: 60bpm
COPY



