History:	44 year old woman status post cardiac arrest, now with myoclonic jerks.
Medications:	Depakote, Dilantin, Ativan, propofol.
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for24 hours from 12/26/2013 till 12/27/2013.  Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.    The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by severely
attenuated background and slow polymorphic delta activity with absence of the expected anterior
to posterior gradient of frequencies.  By the end of the recording the background consists of burst-
suppression with burst-to-suppression ratio of ~ 1:5, with bursts occurring ~ every 10 seconds, lasting
~2 seconds and consisting of diffuse semirhythmic theta and delta activity  (similar to the activity
seen during the ictal runs).  No normal sleep architecture is present.
Frequent brief (12-15 seconds) recurrent seizures are captured early in the recording.  Their
frequency gradually decreases from ~ 50-60 seizures/ hour to none by ~2 PM.  Seizure cessation
corresponds to initiation of phenytoin and propofol.  Clinically, during these events, patient briefly
opens her eyes.  Electrographically, seizures start with sudden high amplitude generalized sharp
waves that rapidly evolve into rhythmic generalized theta and then delta activity.  Even though
seizures stop, patient continues to have brief (~2-3 seconds) diffuse bursts of polymorphic theta and
delta activity, similar to the activity observed during the ictal runs.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, marked
Attenuation, severe
Status epilepticus, recurrent brief generalized seizures that stop by ~ 2 pm
Burst-suppression pattern, ~1:5 by the end of the recording
Interpretation:

This is a VERY ABNORMAL 24-hour continuous video EEG due to severe diffuse slowing,
attenuation, ~1:5 burst-suppression and brief recurrent generalized seizures that decrease in
frequency and stop by the middle of the recording (after initiation of propofol and phenytoin).
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of marked diffuse cerebral dysfunction with
profound cortical irritability and in the setting of severe anoxic brain injury indicate low likelihood
of full neurological recovery.  Even though ictal runs have resolved by the end of the recording,
bursts of activity occurred ~ every 10 seconds and contained waveforms similar to the waveforms
seen during the ictal runs.  This suggests that there is a high likelihood of status  epilepticus
recurrence if anesthesia is weaned off.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult


