History:	82 YR OLD FEMALE R HANDED WITH A FALL HEAD INJURY SEIZURE
PRECAUTIONS,SDH. 50 CM HEAD
Medications:	KEPPRA, METOPROLOL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which is best seen over the
left hemisphere.   5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over bilateral frontal regions.
Diffuse, centrally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology are present throughout the
recording at 1 Hz.  These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag and are
centrally maximal.  They appear to improve with wakefulness and become more attenuated.
Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the recording and increases
during drowsiness.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves
appear diffusely, followed by sometimes asymmetric (best seen on the left)  vertex waves.  During
stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and  some asymmetric
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the right hemisphere region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any effect.  HR was
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, right hemispheric, with focal slowing.
Triphasic waves, nearly continuous diffuse
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent centrally-maximal
triphasic morphology waves and mild diffuse background slowing.  These findings are indicative of
a mild diffuse encephalopathy, which is etiologically nonspecific. The triphasic like discharges do
not appear to evolve or have  an epileptic morphology.  In addition there is focal slowing and
attenuation over the right hemisphere, this is consistent with the known subdural.


