CLINICAL HISTORY:  49 year old right handed male with post traumatic epilepsy, closed head trauma injury in 1980, atonic seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This is the patient's fourth EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is somewhat slow and disorganized.  There is some bursts of posterior predominant slowing.  There are also bursts of frontally predominant high amplitude 3 Hz spike and slow wave activity.  This activity demonstrates some asymmetry, maybe a little bit more prominent in the right frontal region on the left.  It starts to transition to more of a 4-5 Hz spike and wave activity.
Although it is present in relaxed wakefulness, it also occurs during hyperventilation.  Most bursts are less than 2 seconds in duration.  No impairment of awareness is noted with the bursts.
As the patient becomes drowsy, following hyperventilation, the bursts are again seen, but are a little bit slower and transition to a more of an almost 3 second burst with a high amplitude frontal spike, followed by rhythmic delta, which may or may not have a spike.  All of the activity has bilateral representation, but some has a field more prominent on the right.
Photic stimulation may well have accentuated this activity and, again, in photic stimulation sometimes there did seem to be a more clearly defined right frontal spike and slow wave complex before the left, but not always.
At the end of the record when the patient is maximally awake, there is little in the way of background slowing.
Even when the EEG is well organized, the alpha rhythm remains low at 8 Hz.
HR:    64 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Frontally predominant 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity, which was accentuated by hyperventilation and photic.
Occasional shifting asymmetries, particularly in the posterior region.
A slow alpha for an adult of this age.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  There are features in this EEG which support a focal mechanism for epilepsy.  Other features support a generalized mechanism, particularly with 3-5 Hz frontally predominant spike and wave activity, which was accentuated by hyperventilation and photic stimulation.  This suggests more than one possible contributor to this patient's epilepsy.
Of note, some of these findings were seen in an EEG in March 2011, but not in October 2010 or September 2011.



