History:	52 year old man with a history of seizures since childhood. Last reported seizure
occurred within the last month.
Medications:	PHENOBARBITAL, KEPPRA
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral fronto temporal regions during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  During HV the focal slowing seen frontally becomes
more prominent and monomorphic.  Occasional brief bursts (<3 seconds) of generalized frontally-
maximal spike-and-wave discharges discharges (GSW)  occur with a regular repetition rate of 3-
4.5Hz.  At times they appear to be slightly asymmetric in onset (right > left).
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and accentuates generalized
spike and wave discharges.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) and
accentuates generalized spike and wave discharges.  A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate
Summary of Findings:
Spike-and-wave complexes, frequent, 3-4.5 Hz, at times asymmetric in onset (right>left)
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 21-minute awake and drowsy EEG because of frequent 3-4.5 Hz generalized
spike-and-wave discharges, which are epileptogenic. These findings may  consistent with a
diagnosis of primary generalized epilepsy.  However, the slight asymmetry may suggest the
presence of partial epilepsy with rapid secondary bilateral synchrony.  No seizures are present.  A
single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate <60 bpm.






