CLINICAL HISTORY:
MEDICATIONS:  Onfi, phenobarbital, phenytoin, antibiotics, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  As the recording started, the patient had been confused with left monoparesis.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal and it includes multiple different patterns, some of which do not consistently carry clinical correlate of clinical seizure.  The initial hours of the record are compatible with a complex partial status epilepticus with nearly continuous frontal spike and wave activity, maximum in the right frontal region with spread to the contralateral region.  In light of this pattern, the patient received 4 mg of Versed and 200 mg of phenobarbital which was helpful.
As the recording continued, potentially ictal patterns were noted which included a more irregular diffuse theta pattern as well as patterns with brief, low voltage beta buzz.
During sections of the record when the EEG was markedly abnormal, at times the patient was awake, conversant, and eating.
Over the course of the 24 hours of EEG recording, the EEG pattern appeared to improve.  Epileptiform activity was decreasing by midnight with more of a diffuse beta and theta pattern as the patient transitioned to stage 2 sleep.  In stage 2 sleep, there are vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, posts.  In addition, in stage 2 sleep, there is right frontal fast activity and not infrequent right frontal sharp waves or spikes reaching amplitudes of 80 microvolts with after going slow waves.
At the end of this section of recording, the EEG is overall improved and the prolonged discharges and both clinical and subclinical seizures have stopped.
Heart rate 78 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to
An initial pattern with electrographic status epilepticus with a right frontal focus.
Likely multiple epileptiform patterns, which all carry a frontal or generalized mechanism.
Otherwise, somewhat slow background with an absence of a normal awake pattern at any time.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Given these clinical features, ongoing recording will continue and the 1:41 p.m. seizure on 06/19 will be dictated on the subsequent day.



