CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 29-year-old woman with childhood onset refractory seizures with frequent oral and facial involvement, dislocation of the jaw.  Both nocturnal and daytime seizures.  Variable historian.
MEDICATIONS:  Oxcarbazepine and levetiracetam.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement of 1 channel EKG.  This monitoring session began on 04/06/2015 and concluded on 04/09/2015.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  From 04/06/2015 to 04/07/2015:  In wakefulness, there is a symmetric reactive 10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  The initial hours of awake recording are somewhat disorganized, but later sections are well organized with symmetric 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm and a small amount of low voltage, frontal central beta.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.
Electrographic seizures:  None.
Epileptiform Detections:  The vast majority of epileptiform detections occur in sleep and include frontally predominant, relatively symmetric spike and polyspike activity.
April 7 to April 8, 2015:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  In sleep, there is abundant stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS.
Seizures:  6:38 p.m.  The patient had been in stage 2 sleep.  Prior to the seizures, abundant polyspike or GPFA with spike and wave activity that follows.
Prior to this seizure, there is a polyspike and wave complex, a pair of complexes at 6:37:2 followed by a high amplitude, change in the EEG, and then return to the background.  The seizure begins out of sleep.  The EEG demonstrates initially a polyspike component without clear localization or lateralization, but a generalized pattern followed by brief attenuation.  The EEG is then obscured by muscle, but classic spike and wave activity can be seen underneath this with classic frequency evolution and then slowing.
Ictal behavior for this patient out of sleep includes a sleeping individual.  At 4 seconds into the seizure, the patient's head turns to the right.  She screams, her mouth seems to be stuck open.  She demonstrates tonic and then clonic activity with head turning to the left at the end of the seizure.  The EEG is markedly suppressed in the minutes that follow.  The EKG lead is functional during and after this seizure and the heart rate increases during the seizure to 120-150 bpm and tachycardia is sustained in the minutes that follow.  High amplitude, chaotic delta was noted.  The patient was confused.  The patient is responsive several minutes after the seizure.  The nurses are present throughout.  Given the severity of this seizure, the patient is still quite confused at 6:52, improving at 6:58. Despite the patient's ability to answer some questions, the EEG remains quite slow with a much higher amplitude pattern, although without a clearly defined ictal pattern.  Ongoing frontal delta is noted.  There may be an asymmetry in terms of the fast activity, with perhaps a little less so on the left, but without clear definitive localization.  In the time period between the first seizure and the second seizure, ongoing rhythmic frontal mixed theta delta is noted without definitive frequency evolution.  The patient's mental status is overall improving and this phenomenon does seem to be fading by 7:40 p.m.
Seizure 9:20, the patient has returned to sleep with a relatively normal appearing sleep pattern following the previous seizure.  She demonstrates a seizure out of stage I, stage 2 sleep with paroxysmal fast activity picked up, relatively diffusely in the frontal regions and at the midline.  This is followed by fast spike and wave and fast activity.  The patient is sleeping with the head turned to the right at the beginning of the seizure.  At 9:20:45, there is an alerting with eye opening.  Her eyes opened.  Her head turned slightly to the left and there is facial twitching.  The eyes opened, but the eyes seemed to be deviated to the right.  Prominent vocalizations and prominent opening of the mouth was noted.  Tonic and clonic activity is seen at 9:21:08.  The patient has ongoing vocalization throughout the seizure, within the seizure, there is clear clonic activity.  Both head and eyes are deviated to the right.  Prolonged postictal confusion was noted after the seizure. This seizure is also characterized by prolonged, high amplitude delta, in a patient with prolonged confusion.  In this seizure, the patient drifts off to normal sleep much more quickly, she is heading towards normal stage 2 sleep by 10:00 p.m.
More  clear evidence of normal stage 2 sleep was seen in the overnight recording.
April 8 to April 9 2015.  In the initial sections of the record, the patient is somewhat confused.  No clinical seizures were noted.  The background EEG is somewhat challenged by electrode artifacts, but despite this, there are sections including 2:37:46, in which the patient has rhythmic paroxysmal slowing noted.  The rhythmic paroxysmal slowing was noted at 2:41 and again at 7:59:39 and 10:21.
Given the bursts of paroxysmal slowing and the relationship to the previously described tonic-clonic seizures, the house officer interviewed the patient during one of the bursts, but determined that the patient was intact.
Heart rate 78 bpm.
REFERRING DOCTORS:
DATE OF STUDY:  04/09/2015 and 04/10/2015.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 29-year-old woman with epilepsy since age 12, status post treatment with topiramate, Depakote, Tegretol, Lamictal, and Vimpat, unsuccessfully and managed now, admitted for EEG monitoring.
MEDICATIONS:  Levetiracetam and oxcarbazepine.
INTRODUCTION:  This EEG includes 24-hour continuous video EEG monitoring as well as brief recording on April 10th.  During this section of the record, the patient reported no clinical seizures.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  Some sections of the record demonstrate a well-defined, 10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  Additional sections include intermittent, paroxysmal slowing and apparent wakefulness.
ELECTROGRAPHIC SEIZURES:  None.
EPILEPTIFORM DETECTIONS:  Interictal epileptiform detections include bursts of paroxysmal fast activity as well as frontally predominant spike and wave and polyspike and wave complexes.  These are primarily seen in stage 2 sleep.
ELECTROGRAPHIC SEIZURES:  Discharges of unclear clinical significance.  Intermittent paroxysmal slowing was noted.  It was difficult to correlate this with the patient's intermittent somewhat altered mentation.
Heart rate:  66 BPM.
On April 10th, a.m. recording 6 a.m. to 8:30 a.m.  The section of the record includes sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.  Although, the patient was awake, alert, and interactive, the final sections of the record at 8:30 again demonstrated some of the more rhythmic background slowing.  Heart rate 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This long-term video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Two electrographic seizures, both out of sleep, both associated with head turning to the right and a tonic-clonic ictal pattern.
Interictal epileptiform activity, which is on the hold.   Symmetric with frontally predominant polyspike activity.  There are occasional symmetries noted, but the overall picture is a generalized spike and wave activity.  Using an average reference, some of the spike and polyspike activity is seen __________ with a slight predominance to the left.
Intermittent paroxysmal slowing of unclear clinical significance.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The findings described above may be seen in a primary or a secondary generalized epilepsy.  Additional testing may be of value to more fully localize this patient's seizures.





