CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 38-year-old male with adult onset refractory complex partial epilepsy.  Patient states that he is not aware of his seizures but has been told that he has postictal aggressive behavior.  Recent EEG monitoring at another hospital, placed on zonisamide with recurrent seizures 9/7/14
MEDICATIONS:  Zonisamide 400 mg. Phenobarbital 200 mg infusion
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG and seizure and spike detection software.  The patient had 1 seizure during the EEG monitoring at which time, he removed his EEG electrodes.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:   Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  Vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles were noted in stage 2 sleep.  Posts were noted in sleep with lambda noted in wakefulness.  Patient is drowsy- drifts off to sleep if watching TV
Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  Rare right temporal sharps.
Seizure:  10:05:25 PM  the patient may have been in REM sleep.  He alerts at 10:05:25 and alpha rhythm is seen.  He alerts and starts to look for the alarm button.  The 1st clear, ictal change was noted at 16 seconds into the seizure with rhythmic 3-4 Hz activity out of the left temporal region.  This evolves but at10:05:56 or 28 seconds into the seizure, alpha/theta frequency activity, develops in the  right temporal region.  The epileptiform activity from the 2 temporal regions evolves at different frequency.  As the seizure slows, the seizure seems to slow earlier in the right temporal region with a more sustained ictal pattern on the left.  Overall seizure duration is 76 seconds.  Post ictally, there is marked background slowing, and the patient quickly sits up and removes his EEG electrodes.  He is agitated in the postictal section and because of the agitation, no additional EEG recording was utilized.
Seizure semiology: As he awakens from sleep he looks to the left as if he is looking for the seizure alarm.    Most of the body is under the covers.  He seems to have tonic extension of both extremities, but has some preserved automatisms in the left hand.  He kicks the right leg.  No other description possible.
Heart rate 66 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This was the last 24 hours of continuous video EEG monitoring for this adult:
Complex partial seizure, emanating out of sleep with a late scalp localization but with initial left temporal features.
Interictal Right temporal sharp waves (most notable in 14-224-1)
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Diagnostic of localization related epilepsy. These results must be integrated with recent VEEG at an OSH as well as LTM 14-224-1



