AGE: 44 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 12/30/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: outpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, drowsy and asleep EEG #: 15-1886
HISTORY:
44 y.o. female with a history of eclampsia, leukodystrophy, migraine headache and prior history of seizures referred for routine EEG for stumbling episodes.
MEDICATIONS:
Current Outpatient Prescriptions:
hydrochlorothiazide (HYDRODIURIL) 25 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth daily.
naproxen (NAPROSYN) 500 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily as needed.
topiramate (TOPAMAX) 50 mg tablet, Take 1 tablet by mouth 2 times daily. Take one in the AM and two at bed
No current facility-administered medications for this visit. SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a	technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG HV and photic stimulation . The patient was very drowsy and, was falling asleep during photic stimulation
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and consists of a mixture of alpha and a moderate amount of bifrontal beta activity, organized in a normal anterior-to-posterior gradient. Wakefulness is characterized by a symmetric and reactive 9.5 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR), which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Age 1 sleep includes prominent vertex waves
Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.
No generalized slowing is present.	No focal slowing is present. EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
No epileptiform activity is present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Elicits an increase in amplitude of the background in this otherwise somewhat lower voltage pattern.
There is also a small increase in background slowing
Photic Stimulation: Although the patient was drifting into stage II sleep, scant driving was noted
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 66 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is a normal drowsy and asleep	routine EEG.	There are no clinical or electrographic events reported or detected.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This is a normal awake and asleep routine EEG.
A normal routine EEG does not support or refute the diagnosis of epilepsy.	Previous EEGs are not available at this time for comparison
