DATE OF STUDY:  November 1st through November 2nd.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  EEG monitoring continues for 62-year-old woman, status post respiratory arrest with right eye deviation.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenytoin and others.
INTRODUCTION:
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  There is a dynamic background noted over the 24-hour section.  The overall background is diffusely slow with a variable pattern with variable amounts of theta and delta.  The initial hours of the record demonstrate a prominent epileptiform discharge in the right occipital region, in a PLED-plus like pattern.  The patient has a very abnormal EKG and at times, it is difficult to determine to differentiate between the epileptiform activity in the EKG artifact, but the activity particularly at 10 a.m. is a nearly continuous, although not evolving.
Tactile stimulation of the patient seem to attenuate the right occipital sharp waves and spikes.  Spontaneous arousals were noted, which also seemed to be associated with a decrease in the occipital sharp waves and spikes.
On the morning of November 1st, phenytoin was initiated.  Although, there brief runs of sharp waves or rhythmic theta from the right occipital quadrant, no sustained seizures were noted.
By 7:32, as the patient drifts off to sleep, the background EEG is very slow, intermittently attenuated with frequent, irregular occipital sharp waves and spikes.
There are handful of triphasic waves emerging in the record.  In addition, sporadic sharp waves from the right central region or from the left are noted.
By the end of this epoch, the epileptiform activity seems to be fading, it is significantly more blunted.
Heart rate is 60-1C for bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Technically challenging EEG, but markedly abnormal.  This section of the EEG is markedly abnormal due to:
Right occipital sharp waves occurring as bursts or trains without clear clinical correlate.  These seem to attenuate with tactile stimulation.
Triphasic waves.
As the recording continues, additional sharply contoured discharges are noted as well as some rhythmic theta from the right occipital quadrant.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This initial sections of this epoch are highly epileptogenic.  The later sections are significantly more blunted.  EEG monitoring will continue.
EEG NUMBER:  Long-Term Monitor 14-280-3.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient remained poorly responsive, intubated with spontaneous arousals.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG remained markedly slow and disorganized.  On sharp waves in the initial sections of the record are more blunted, some with a posterior temporal phase reversal others T4.  There are occasional triphasic waves noted in the background.  Spontaneous arousals are associated with an increase in theta and muscle.  Tactile stimulation was performed in the early sections of the record with the epileptiform activity is significantly reduced.  Tactile stimulation was performed again at 10:17 producing an increase in muscle.
When the patient is resting quietly, the overall pattern is a mixture of theta and delta with intermittent attenuations.  Rare sharp waves are noted, including the left posterior temporal region and T3 as well as some triphasic waves.
At intermittent sections of the record, the sharp waves reappear, although they are more blunted and more typically in the right posterior quadrant.  Intermittent triphasic waves were also noted.
At approximately 11:50, the epileptiform activity starts to emerge from the EEG, perhaps associated with an arousal.  The patient has an episode of eye opening and very slow right arm movement.  The EEG does shower the appearance of periodic activity, more prominent in the right central parietal region, but the motor activity is very, very slow and the epileptiform activity does not frankly evolve.  This is seen more subtly at 11:56.  Behaviorally, the activity looks more like an arousal and when it is over, the patient seems to have drifted off to sleep.  Similar activity was noted at 12:03 with a very slow periodic activity in the right parietal region, but again with eye opening.  A similar event is noted at 2:06 with very slow eye opening on and the appearance of right sharp waves, although the sharp waves do not evolve.
An additional burst was noted at 2:26 again with eye opening.  This discharge is different in morphology and seems to have a bihemispheric pattern.  Little in the way of clinical signs or symptoms were noted, but again, eye opening was noted at the beginning onset of this.  Additional episodes with arousals are not necessarily associated with the same epileptiform activity.
At 5:00 a.m., while the patient is asleep, additional prominent sharp waves were noted without clear clinical correlate.
Heart rate is 90 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This report concludes the EEG monitoring, which ended on November 3rd.  Of note, the overall long-term EEG monitoring session was notable for:
A pattern of prominent right occipital sharp waves and spikes in trains, but without clear frequency evolving on October 31st, responding to phenytoin on November 1st.
A more subtle ictal pattern evolving in the late night on November 2nd and early morning hours of November 3rd with slow eye movements or eye opening, but it is almost seems to be purposeful elevation of the right arm and the reappearance of epileptiform activity primarily in the right occipital region, but on 1 occasion bilaterally with associated eye opening.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This may represent although the electrographic correlates with the behavior, not one-to-one, this pattern may represent an ongoing ictal pattern.





