History:	66 year old man with a history of strokes, now presents with unresponsiveness.
Medications:	LASIX, NEBULIZER, SALINE, METHYLPREDNISOLONE, INSULIN, FENTANYL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm is present.  Background activity is characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Occasional triphasic waveforms with predominance over the occipital region appear
with stimulation.  They are more prominent over the left.  No normal sleep architecture is present
but periods of quiescence are captured.
There is subtle paucity of faster frequencies and voltage attenuation over the right, especially over
the anterior and middle quadrants.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There is reactivity to, auditory, tactile,
and noxious stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Triphasic waves, occasional, better seen over the left
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric, especially over the anterior and
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 21-minute portable EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse slowing;
continuous right hemispheric focal slowing (more pronounced over the anterior and middle
quadrants) and attenuation and occasional triphasic waveforms. Diffuse slowing is indicative of
moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous
focal slowing and attenuation are indicative of a focal structural lesion over the right, possibly
secondary to a fluid collection between brain and a skull (such as subdural hematoma, empyema et
etc).  Triphasic waves are a nonspecific EEG finding that can be seen in hepatic encephalopathy,
uremia and anoxia.  No electrographic seizures are present.




