REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizure.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  An 85-year-old woman fell on the floor, not responding, foaming at the mouth, and not moving her right side with eyes deviated to the left.  Head CT negative.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Protonix, aspirin, and heparin, levothyroxine, metoprolol, hydralazine.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while lethargic.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 6 Hz seen mainly over the right hemisphere. Overall, the background is consisting of delta slowing which appears to be reactive to touch.  There is no normal sleep architecture and no activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen continuously over the left hemisphere maximal at T2 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz, amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  Please note that over the left central hemisphere there is also some attenuation of faster frequencies.
Focal slowing at T4, at times at F4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-6- microvolts seen intermittently throughout the recording.
SEIZURES:  None.
HEART RATE:  90, irregular.  Some PVCs were noted.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal electroencephalogram due to left hemispheric focal slowing maximal in the mid temporal region with some loss of faster frequencies over the central region in addition to right temporal and frontal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of a focal structural dysfunction over the left hemisphere maximal at the mid temporal region which may involve white matter and gray matter due to loss of faster frequencies over the left central region.  This may be due to post ictal changes or may signify a mass or occupying lesion or structural deficit in that region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction over the right mid temporal and frontal regions, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.



