CLINICAL HISTORY: A 23-year-old woman with refractory tonic-clonic seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  The patient had 1 seizure during the first 24 hour section.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with symmetric reactive alpha rhythm.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex wave K complexes, spindles and posts.  Just prior to the seizure, the patient was awake and lambda waves were identified.
Seizure time was 9:09:26.  The patient is awake with nurse.  She is communicative and conversant.  This seizure began with frontally predominant 4 to 5 Hz spike in wave discharge and then a pause and then additional spike in wave activity.  The EEG is rapidly obscured by muscle and motion artifact due to the tonic clonic activity.  In the initial 30 seconds of seizure, much of the activity transitions very quickly from clonic to prolonged tonic and then tonic clonic activity starts to emerge at 9:10:12.  This seizure is ending at 09:10:26 and then the patient is poorly responsive without additional motor activity although there is a burst of high amplitude poly spike activity noted.  That activity is relatively symmetric.  The post ictal EEG is markedly slow and suppressed.  A slow, delta pattern was noted with eye movement artifacts but without definitive spikes.  Later on, the patient transitions to stage 2 sleep with vertex waves and spindles.  On occasion in stage 2 sleep, dyshormia is noted with a generalized spike in wave discharge in association with a vertex wave.  Abundant stage 2 sleep is captured all the way through to the morning recording.
On the morning of March 5, the patient reports feeling very fatigued and sedated.  As the recording continues on the morning of the 5th, there is initially some slowing of the background but then much more awake pattern noted by 10:28 a.m.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  EEG monitoring in the first 24 hours for this patient identified a single generalized seizure and rare epileptiform activity.



