AGE : 48 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 10/12/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: Inpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, Awake and drowsy EEG #: 15-332
HISTORY:
48 y.o. female with a history of ESRD on HD and seizures referred for routine EEG for altered mental status and word-finding difficulties.
MEDICATIONS : Dilantin
SEDATION: None TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND :
The waking background is characterized by the presence of a fairly well organized symmetric mixture of alpha and occasional beta, with excess of theta and delta frequencies with shifting laterality. There is a symmetric and reactive 8 Hertz posterior dominant rhythm (PDR).
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is not captured.
There is mild generalized slowing.
There is bilateral shifting hemispheric slowing.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
1. There is frequent medium amplitude generalized rhythmic delta slowing, at times sharply contoured , at 1-1.5 Hz for 5-7 seconds
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES:
Hyperventilation: Hyperventilation is not performed.
Photic Stimulation: Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce any EEG changes.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 78 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal Awake and drowsy	routine EEG due to:
Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization
Bilateral shifting hemispheric slowing
Frequent medium amplitude generalized rhythmic delta slowing, at times sharply contoured, at 1-1.5 Hz for 5-7 seconds
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Generalized rhythmic delta slowing is a nonspecific but pathologic finding that is most commonly seen in toxic metabolic states, but can also be seen with hyperexcitability, increased intracranial pressure, or deep structural lesions - clinical correlation is advised. These findings were discussed with the patient 's neurology team.



