History:	66 year female recently released from TUH.  Daughter reports that patient had
episodes of screaming and shaking witnessed while admitted to TUH.
Medications:	Tylenol, lovenox,prozac,protonix,dilaudid,levothyroxine, namenda,
losartan,haloperidol,gabapentin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, photic
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low-to-
moderate voltage polymorphic delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to
posterior gradient of frequencies.  Diffuse, frontally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology
are present throughout the recording.  These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase
lag and have a broad base.  No normal sleep architecture is captured, but periods quiescence are
present.  They are characterized by increase in diffuse delta activity and appears of periods of
A single sharp transient is captured over the right lateral leads.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  There is significant movement and artifact throughout photic
stimulation.  However, clear occipital driving is noted in medium range frequencies over the left
only.  There is frequent movement artifact that limits EEG interpretation.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Triphasic waves
Sharp transients, one, over right lateral leads
Photic driving, only seen over the left
Artifact, movement, frequent
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 27 minute EEG because of moderate diffuse background slowing, triphasic
waveforms and asymmetry in photic driving.  These findings are indicative of a moderate diffuse
encephalopathy, which is etiologically nonspecific, but suggestive of a metabolic origin.  Lack of
clear photic driving over the right is suggestive of focal cerebral dysfunction of the right hemispheric
visual cortex, please correlate clinically.  The single sharply contoured waveform is of unclear
clinical significance.  There is frequent movement artifact that limits EEG interpretation.


