CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 50-year-old woman status post MVA with traumatic brain injury, 13 months ago.  She had several seizures immediately following the accident and took seizure medications briefly.  Will have a craniotomy for bone repair soon and continues to have migraine headaches.
MEDICATIONS:  Abilify and Elavil.
INTRODUCTION:  Routine 22-minute digital EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  This is a technically satisfactory record with impedances under 5 kilohms with the exception of the T1-T2 electrodes.  There was frontal skull defect and breach rhythm and some head rocking from the electrodes noted.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is somewhat disorganized.  The posterior dominant rhythm reaches 9 Hz, but much of the time is slower than this.  There is also some frontally predominant delta and some shifting arrhythmic delta, a little bit more prominent on the right.  Features of drowsiness include an increase in slowing and then brief beta spindles followed by an arousal.
There seems to be a C4 breach rhythm with more sharply contoured activity in that region.  As the recording continues, the patient transitioned in and out of stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and posts and the breach rhythm is quite remarkable from the right.  Snore artifact produces an arousal and awakens the patient.
Photic stimulation did elicit a driving response.
Heart rate 78 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG for an adult of this age due to:
Background slowing and disorganization.
Theta.
Some occasional or infrequent bursts of shifting slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The breach rhythm, most prominent in the right central region is an anticipated finding following craniotomy.  On the whole, this EEG is more supportive of a mild,
bihemispheric disturbance of cerebral function.  No epileptiform features were noted.  Previous EEGs were not available for comparison at this time.



