
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 56-year-old gentleman with history of seizures.  His last seizure was 2 months ago.

MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin and phenobarbital.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 8.5-9 Hz in frequency, well formed in the left occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There are almost continuous right frontotemporal slowing with sharply contoured configurations and breach rhythm.  There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness.  There is breach rhythm seen at the right cerebral hemisphere.  There is almost continuous polymorphic theta and delta activities seen at the left anterior and mid temporal region.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of the posterior dominant rhythm.  On the left side and slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact. Activating procedures produce no abnormal discharges.  Heart rate was 70 beats per minute and regular.

IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
1. Diffuse Theta activity seen during wakefulness.
2. Breach rhythm in the right frontotemporal region.
3. Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity seen in right anterior area and posterior temporal region.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Theta activity in wakefulness could be due to postictal state.  Other causes include toxic metabolic or infectious encephalopathy, effect of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Breach rhythm is consistent with patient's history of craniotomy.  Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity seen at the right cerebral hemisphere is suggestive of an underlying structural abnormality in the subcortical white matter of the left hemisphere.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or a 24-hour EEG monitoring may be helpful.




