History:		30 year old woman with a history of large right frontal hematoma status post EVD, now out (left frontal approach).   Patient remains unresponsive.
EEG is performed in 2 parts, - 20 minutes apart. Medications:	Keppra. Propofol turned off - 12 hours earlier. Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, >60 min, portable
Technique:		International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, comatose
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with voltage attenuation and slower waveforms over the right. The background over the left consists of 8-9 Hz activity posteriorly, with expected but weak AP gradient and diffuse excess theta activity. The background over the right consists of a mixture of attenuated theta and delta activity. Frequent episodes of arousals are noted. Many of them start with a coughing fit or in response to a noise in the room or patient stimulation (such as suctioning).
Electrographically they are characterized by appearance of diffuse, left anterior   predominant rhythmic delta activity and increase in voltages and prominence of activity seen in the left posterior quadrant.
Continuous EKG artifact is present. Occasional sleep-spindle-like waveforms are present. Additionally, episodes of arousals and quiescence are captured.
A single suspected seizure is captured at -11:14 AM. It lasts - 4.5 minutes. It starts gradually with appearance of left anterior rhythmic sharply contoured - 1.5 Hz delta activity and increase in amplitude of activity within the left posterior quadrant. This activity persists with appearance of diffuse fast activities. Blinking artifact appears at - 11:16:11 am and lasts till - 11:17:27 am. Blink artifact is not rhythmic.
Clinically, patient appears to move her head slightly in the flexion/extension  motion.  Episode of rapid left hand shaking is captured from -12:58:11 PM till - 12:58:47 pm. There is no EEG correlate except for movement artifact seen in the EKG lead.
Ventilator artifact is intermittently present in the second part of the recording.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, right hemispheric, moderate-to-severe Attenuation, moderate, right hemispheric
Seizure, one, left hemispheric, suspected Other, reactivity is characterized
, by appears of activity
, that is similar to the one seen in a suspect seizure Other, episode of left arm shaking
Artifact, other, ventilator
Interpretation:
This is a very ABNORMAL portable -2 hour continuous EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing, focal right hemispheric moderate-to-severe slowing and moderate attenuation; (3) a single SUSPECTED left hemispheric seizure (associated with non-rhythmic blinking). Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific. Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion on the left and is consistent with a know left ICH. A single SUSPECTED seizure emanating from the left (possibly left anterior region). That episode could also have been a prolonged more profound arousal since activity that was seen within a seizure resembles activity seen during patient's arousals. - 30 second episode of LEFT arm shaking had no abnormal EEG correlate.
However, only -25% of simple partial seizures are recorded on a scalp EEG. These findings were conveyed to the primary team and patient was placed on continuous EEG monitoring.




