REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 53-year-old woman with a history of seizures; followup for recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Tegretol.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 to 10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Photic stimulation produces no abnormal discharges.
Abnormal discharges:
Very frequent, at times rhythmic sharp waves seen over F7/T3 and at times at T3 during wakefulness and sleep, as well independent also frequent sharp waves over F8/T4, also seen during wakefulness and sleep; however, the majority of the sharp waves are seen mainly in sleep and appear to attenuate with eye opening and wakefulness.
Focal slow waves over the left hemisphere at F7/T3 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts and independently at F8/T4, seen occasionally at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts.
Seizures:  None.
Heart rate 78, regular.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to very frequent left anterior temporal and independent right anterior temporal sharp waves in wakefulness and sleep, as well as focal slowing in those regions.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from either anterior temporal region.  In addition, there is evidence of independent focal cerebral dysfunction in the bilateral anterior temporal regions, both of which are nonspecific in regard to etiology.  No seizures were seen.  Please note that this EEG is not that dissimilar to the reported EEG done on August 1, 2011.



