TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG capturing wakefulness on stage I sleep.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 56-year-old right-handed male with past medical history of neuropathy, diabetes, left prosthetic eye, and head trauma from a fall, presents with seizure-like activity started after head trauma.  Patient is unsure of what seizure look like.
MEDICATIONS:  __________.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the lab using standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed with tracing captures wakefulness through stage I sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, alpha rhythm is 9-10 Hz in frequency and 30-40 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening. There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage I series is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of post heart rate 80-90.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and resulting a symmetric driving response. Hyperventilation was associated with diffuse slowing of background activity.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity during wakefulness.  This EEG is abnormal due to excess theta activity seen during wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above finding include due to metabolic toxic-hypoxic or infectious encephalopathy, alternatively it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures are captured.  This
does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat sleep deprive EEG or ambulatory EEG monitoring maybe helpful.



