History:	44 year old woman status post cardiac arrest, now with myoclonic jerks.
Medications:	Depakote, Ativan
Sedation:	Lorazepam
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~15 hours from ~3 pm on 12/25/2013 till ~ 6 am on
12/26/2013.  Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.   The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by severely
attenuated background and slow polymorphic delta activity with absence of the expected anterior
to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
Frequent brief (12-15 seconds) recurrent seizures are captured.  Their frequency gradually
increases from ~ 20-25 seizures/ hour to up to 50-60 seizures/ hour by the end of the recording.
Clinically, during these events, patient opens her eyes and has chewing mouth movements.
Electrographically, seizures start with sudden high amplitude generalized sharp waves that rapidly
evolve into rhythmic generalized theta and then delta activity.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, severe
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, marked
Status epilepticus, up to 50-60/hour brief generalized seizures by the end of the recording
No reactivity
Interpretation:
This is a VERY ABNORMAL 15-hour continuous video EEG due to severe diffuse slowing and
attenuation and brief recurrent generalized seizures that increase in frequency as the recording
progresses (up to 50-60 seizures per hour by the end of the recording) These findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of marked diffuse cerebral dysfunction with profound cortical
irritability and in the setting of severe anoxic brain injury indicate low likelihood of full neurological
recovery.  These findings were conveyed to the neurology consult team and to the primary team.



