CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 46-year-old man with history of recurrent intracranial hemorrhage, episodes of unclear etiology who now presents with new left temporal hemorrhage and multiple seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications Keppra, loaded with Dilantin, phenobarbital, and placed on Versed drip later in the recording.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording is performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1-T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  CT compatible electrodes were used.  The recording was reviewed intermittently throughout the 24 hour period by an  attending neurologist.  Medical staff notes and nursing staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is right-to-left interhemispheric asymmetry with lower waveforms and high amplitudes over the left hemisphere.  The background over the right hemisphere has a posterior dominant rhythm of approximately 8-9 Hz activity with weak anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  There is additional polymorphic theta activity observed over the right hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the left hemisphere consists of approximately 8 Hz theta activity without clear anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background over the left hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.  Throughout the recording additional diffuse low amplitude rhythmic slow delta activity is captured.  As the recording progresses, frequency of this delta activity becomes more pronounced.  Additionally as the recording progresses the patient appears to start having poorly formed electrographic seizures emanating from the left temporal parietal region.  These seizures are characterized by rhythmic theta activity most pronounced over the left lateral leads.  As the recording progresses seizures appear to spread diffusely and are characterized by diffuse rhythmic delta activity, with associated blink artifact.  Clinically the patient appears to have a rhythmic bilateral eye blinking.  Ativan was administered but did not result in cessation of status epilepticus.  The patient was subsequently loaded with IV Dilantin.  This resulted in resolution of generalized status epilepticus; however, he continued to have focal left temporal parietal status epilepticus.  The patient was subsequently intubated at 11:52 p.m. using propofol.  This resulted in abrupt discontinuation of status epilepticus as well as diffuse burst suppression.  That lasted several minutes.  As burst suppression decreased discrete moderate amplitude sharp waves were observed over the left temporoparietal region.  Their frequency gradually increased to approximately 1 Hz.  These discharges constituted PLEDs.  These discharges are accompanied by lower amplitude fast activity thus representing PLEDs-plus.  Occasionally frequency of these discharges increases but never lasts longer than 10 seconds.  This constitutes a brief ictal rhythmic discharges (BIRDS).
FINDINGS:  Left temporal parietal seizures that slowly evolved into generalized status epilepticus.  PLEDs and PLEDs-plus emanating from the left temporal parietal region observed after 12 a.m..  Diffuse background slowing and discontinuation.  Focal left hemispheric slowing.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24-hour continuous audio video electroencephalogram  monitoring due to gradual resolution of focal left temporal parietal status epilepticus that evolves into generalized status epilepticus.  __________ status epilepticus resolves with administration of Ativan and Dilantin.  However, focal left temporal parietal status epilepticus persists.  It resolves with administration of anesthetic  agent and initiation of phenobarbital.  However, periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges are still observed at that time.  Diffuse background slowing indicates __________ nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal left hemispheric slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural etiology and in this patient is partially related to postictal phenomenon.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology primary team.



