CLINICAL HISTORY: 94 year old female with history of left frontal stroke and change in mental status.
MEDICATIONS: Acyclovir, Lorazepam 1MG last month, Ampicillin, Hydralazine, Insulin, Heparin, Lipitor, ASA, Vancomycin, Ceftriaxone.
INTRODUCTION:  This was a routine EEG that was performed using a standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG monitoring.  During the course of the recording, photic stimulation was performed.  Hyperventilation however, was not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The recording was 23 minutes in duration. The record captures wakefulness, drowsiness and early stage 2 sleep.  As the record opens, there is excessive muscle artifact that obscures much of the background tracing, however, at times the artifact does diminish and there is the appearance of a low voltage symmetric 9 to 10 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  This is minimally reactive to eye opening.  There is an excessive amount of theta activity that is identified in the frontal central and central parietal regions as well.  There is a small to moderate amount of frontal central data.  Throughout the recording, there is intermittent focal slowing noted over the left frontal temporal region, characterized by small to medium amplitude rhythmic theta activity identified in the FP 107 and 7 T1 and T2, T3 electrodes.  Also, there are intermittent sharp waves that are identified, maximal in the left frontal temporal region, again with maximal phase reversal at F7 and T1.  Stage 1 sleep is characterized by modest slowing of the existing posterior dominant rhythm, the appearance of central theta activity.  Stage 2 sleep is heralded by the appearance of fragmentary vertex waves. Sleep spindles were not identified.  There were no clinical events identified or recorded by the technician during this recording.  There were no electrographic seizures identified during this recording.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and did not induce a significant photic driving response. Heart rate varied from 60-80.
IMPRESSION:  In summary, this is a routine EEG performed capturing wakefulness through early stage 2 sleep that is abnormal.  The record is abnormal because of the presence of intermittent diffuse slowing, the presence of intermittent focal slowing over the left frontal temporal region and the appearance of intermittent sharp waves present in the left frontal temporal region.  The presence of focal slowing may suggest a structural lesion in this region, the presence of diffuse slowing may suggest diffuse brain injury or toxic metabolic effect.  Sharp waves have epileptiform potential and may suggest electrographic correlate to the patient's reported clinical event.



