CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 56-year-old right-handed man with history of coronary artery disease status post PCI in 1996, hypertension presented to hospital status post loss of consciousness while at work. Patient felt tingling in his arms, diaphoresis, nausea, shortness of breath, and chest pressure.

TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG awake and asleep.

DIAGNOSIS:  Rule out seizures, loss of consciousness.

MEDICATIONS:  Nitroglycerin, aspirin.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.  These tracing captures restarted with wakefulness through stage II sleep

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm is 8.5-9 Hertz in frequency, 20-30 microvolts in amplitude, seen in the cortical region which attenuates with eye opening.  There is excess 6-7 Hz theta activity noted during short period of wakefulness, stage I sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm and slowing of the background and absence of eye-blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves and post.  Stage II sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes sleep spindle.  There are diffuse muscle and EKG artifact noted during most of this recording.  Hyperventilation resulted in symmetric slowing of the background.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and resulting in a symmetric driving response.  Heart rate is 60 beats per minute and regular.

IMPRESSION:  This is a limited study due to muscle and EKG artifact.  This is mildly abnormal EEG recording due to excess theta activity during short period of wakefulness.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures are identified in this record.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above finding could be due to metabolic, toxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  Even the presence of muscle artifact is clinically indicated, repeat EEG may be helpful.



