History:	73 year old man with a known seizure disorder and right frontal tumor status post
craniectomy, now presents after a generalized convulsion, found to have focal
seizures on a routine EEG on 4/24/2015.
Medications:	Phenobarbital, Tegretol, Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~17 hours from 4/24/2015 till 4/25/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The awake background consists of moderate amplitude 9.5-10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with
eye opening.  The AP gradient is weak.  During sleep, EMG artifact disappears and is replaced by
a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta activity.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the bilateral anterior regions during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  Additionally, continuous underriding fast activity is seen over the
bilateral anterior regions.  Intermittent independent bilateral (left>right) prefrontal sharp waves are
present.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over the Fp1 and Fp2 leads
Summary of Findings:
Breach artifact, bilateral anterior
No electrographic seizures
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, bilateral anterior
Sharp waves, intermittent, bilateral (L>R) anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 17-hour continuous video EEG due to continuous bilateral anterior
moderate focal slowing, and intermittent independent bilateral, left>right, anterior pre-frontal
epileptiform discharges.  These findings indicate potentially epileptogenic structural lesions over
the bilateral anterior regions.  Breach artifact is secondary to the skull defect.






