CLINICAL HISTORY: 46 year old right handed gentleman with a long history of depression, epilepsy, cerebral palsy, subsequent aneurysm repair. Last seizure 05/11/2011 with loss of consciousness and confusion.
MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Dilantin, Norvasc, Simvastatin, Sertraline, Amlodipine.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Photic stimulation is completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, the overall EEG is relatively low voltage with generous beta and scant alpha rhythms. A breech rhythm is noted in the right hemisphere. There is also some electrode artifact, compatible with a deformity of the skull shape.
Hyperventilation is performed early in the record, producing an increase in the amplitude, augmenting the double phase reversing artifacts on the right and increasing some theta a bit more so on the right compared to the left. Features of drowsiness included increase in beta. In drowsiness, the focal slowing is a bit more apparent on the right with a mixture of rhythmic 3-5 Hz activity. Vertex waves are noted as the patient transitions in and out of sleep. There is  disruption of faster frequency activity on the right in the transition to sleep in the centrotemporal regions with a bit more prominent spindles in the central regions, in the region of the previous
craniotomy. Overall, most of the focal slowing in this record is centrotemporal. In the context of a breech rhythm, there are a handful of right central or frontal sharp waves. Photic stimulation is  performed while the patient is in stage 2 sleep. No significant driving response was noted.
HR: 78 bpm
IMPRESSION: A normal EEG due to:
1. Rhythmic theta and delta activity in the right temporal region.
2. Rare G4 and F4 sharp waves identified in the context of a breech rhythm.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: In comparison to previous studies, the EEG today has primarily centrotemporal slowing. The sharp waves are ipsilateral to the previous craniotomy and similar to the previous records. There is some variability in terms of localization of epileptiform activity
in the right for this individual.




