CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 54-year-old man with the history of metastatic lung cancer to the brain, who now presents with focal status epilepticus.

MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include Depakote, Keppra and Versed drip.  Versed drip turned off in the afternoon on 07/11/2013.

INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system. A single EKG lead was placed.  Medical staff notes and nursing notes were reviewed.  The recording was reviewed several times during the 24 hour period.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background consists of severe voltage attenuation and frank burst suppression of approximately 1:1 to 1:2 ratio, mixed with moderate to high amplitude, slow waves observed over the right hemisphere.  Maximal scalp negativity is over T6 and T4 electrodes with occasional maximum scalp negativity over O2 electrode.  These epileptiform discharges have a broad field including over the left hemisphere.  As the recording progresses, the degree of burst suppression lessens and the discharges become rhythmic at approximately 1 Hz.  Additionally, as the recording progresses, some underwriting faster frequencies observed primarily over the left hemisphere.  No electrographic seizures are captured.

IMPRESSION:
Severe voltage attenuation, diffuse background slowing and frank burst suppression approximately 1:1 to 1:2 ratio which resolved as the recording progresses.
Continuous (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges) emanating from the right posterior quadrant, with space reversal over T6, T4 and intermittently 02 electrode.  Frequency of these discharges  approximately 1 Hz.
No electrographic seizures.
This is a very abnormal 24 hour continuous audio visual EEG monitoring due to severe voltage attenuation, severe diffuse background slowing, burst suppression approximately 1:1 to 1:2 ratio as well as continuous right posterior quadrant periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges.  Diffuse voltage attenuation, background slowing and burst suppression indicates severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction, that is etiologically non specific, however, in this patient is at least partially related to the medication effect.  There is a focal cerebral dysfunction over the right posterior quadrant with increased epileptiform potential.  No frank seizures were captured.





