CLINICAL HISTORY:  Refractory epilepsy, multiple developmental brain anomalies, and 9 seizures in the last 2 days with pain following vagal nerve stimulation device revision.
MEDICATIONS: Topiramate, Trileptal, phenobarbital, clonazepam and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was relatively somnolent throughout the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG was low voltage and slow, often lacking in the typical morphologies of a normal awake adult.  This pattern was disrupted by high amplitude slow spike and wave complexes.  These were often generalized, but in addition focal, left hemispheric spike and wave activity was noted as were some sharp waves from the right.  As the patient transitions towards, there are bursts of beta activity with a slow spike and wave complex noted.
The patient was relatively drowsy and with the more prolonged bursts of spike and wave activity, the technologist did not notice any change in the patient's behavior.  The more prolonged bursts of slow spike and wave activity seemed to emerge as the patient became increasingly sleepy, but spontaneous arousals were noted.  There were also some sustained bursts with more left focal spike and slow wave and focal slowing noted in the transition to sleep.
The patient was snoring as photic stimulation was attempted.  Spindle activity was noted.  Slow spike and wave activity was also noted in sleep.
By the end of the EEG, the patient was awake and lower voltage fast activity was noted, but again without a normal alpha rhythm.
Heart rate 90 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to:
Frequent bursts of slow spike and wave activity.
Absence of normal awake background for an adult of this age.
Focal epileptiform activity including left hemispheric spike and slow wave activity as well as epileptiform activity from the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This tracing is similar to previous studies, but has more background slowing and more slow spike and wave activity rather than focal features.



