History:	48 year old woman with history of strokes and seizures, now presents with change in
mental status and increase in seizure frequency.
Medications:	Dilantin, Tegretol
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~15 hours hours from ~7 pm on 12/17/23013 till  ~
10 am on 12/18/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.
Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures
and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Diffuse, frontally maximal sharp waves with triphasic morphology are occasionally
present.  These waveforms demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag.  No normal sleep
architecture is present but periods of quiescence are captured and are characterized by absence of
EMG artifact, periods of discontinuity and increase in diffuse delta activity.
Subtle shifting paucity of faster frequencies is noted over the hemispheres, right>left.  Right anterior
temporal sharp waves are occasionally observed (example 9:09 PM).  Maximal scalp negativity is
over F8/T4 electrodes.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.  Patient has episodes of
left arm tonic posturing.  These occur with stimulation (as seen at ~3 AM) and are not associated
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, occasional, right temporal, anterior
No electrographic seizures
Event, occasional, left arm tonic posturing, occurs with stimulation
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, shifting paucity of faster frequencies over the
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 15-hour continuous video EEG because of moderate diffuse slowing,
shifting bi-hemispheric slowing and occasional right anterior temporal epileptiform discharges.
Diffuse slowing indicates moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.
Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, and in this patient is consistent with a history of
bilateral cortical and subcortical strokes.  Right anterior temporal region carries an epileptogenic
potential.  Episodes of left arm posturing occurred with stimulation and did not have an underlying with ictal activity.
ictal correlate.  No electrographic seizures are present.  These findings were conveyed to the
primary team.


