REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 39-year-old woman with mental retardation and Lennox-Gastaut with recurrent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Ativan, famotidine, Lovenox, topiramate, Flagyl, Depakote, and Vimpat.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike detection as well as seizure detection software was used to review the events.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  The EEG's multiple electrical artifact improved during the day, however, there was still some movement artifact seen throughout the recording obscuring some of the seizures.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no posterior dominant rhythm or frontal central beta.  Overall there are theta-delta mixed frequencies intermingled with multiple multifocal spikes, which I will describe in the abnormal discharges.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Multifocal spikes seen at O1, O2, T6, FP1, FP2, T3, and T4.  However, the majority of the spikes are seen on O1, O2 and less so at FP1/FP2.
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts seen almost continuously throughout the recording.
SEIZURES:  Again during the recording there are multiple seizures, about 13 of them, some of them lasting up to 30 minutes where the EEG appears to seldom display a rhythmic sharply contoured theta intermixed at beta and at times maximally frontally and centrally with an overlying rhythmic occipital sharp focus.  It is unclear where the origin of the seizure is.  It is also atypical in that it does not clearly evolve, it just suddenly starts and appears to slowly stop.  The patient appears to move her head side to side and arms moving in a wild flinging fashion.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to multiple seizures with unclear origin and multifocal spikes.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of multiple generalized seizure of unclear origin as well as multiple areas of irritability and structural dysfunction as well as diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is consistent with the diagnosis of symptomatic generalized epilepsy.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



