CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 52-year-old male with thirst, weakness, generalized tonic-clonic seizures with no recollection of events.   Past medical history significant for myocardial infarction, left MCA stroke, hypertension, dementia.
MEDICATIONS:  Include aspirin, pantoprazole, hydralazine, finasteride, atorvastatin, and Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital EEG was performed in lab using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1-channel EKG.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 7.5-8 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is slowing of background activity characterized by 5-7 Hz diffuse theta activity, which is intermixed with some 2-2 Hz delta activity.  There is attenuation and loss of faster frequencies in the frontoparietal region in the left hemisphere.  There is almost continuous focal slowing with a frequency of 1.5-2 Hz most pronounced in superior frontal, left central, left parietal area.  The lethargic state is characterized by further slowing of the background and disappearance of posterior dominant rhythm.  Photic stimulation was performed at different frequencies with no driving response.  Heart rate was 80-85 beats per minutes and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm and background activity with theta and delta activity seen in wakefulness.
Almost continuous slowing and attenuation with loss of faster frequencies in the left hemisphere, most pronounced in frontoparietal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of either toxic/metabolic or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease. Continuous slowing in the left hemisphere is indicative of structural abnormalities in this region. Clinical correlation is recommended. Attenuation and loss of faster frequencies in the left hemisphere is consistent with the patient's history of stroke.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizure activity are identified in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



