History:	53 year old woman with new onset episodes of right arm shaking.
Medications:	None
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, awake,
drowsy, hyperventilation
Description:
The background consists of low-to-moderate amplitude polymorphic 8 Hz theta activity and weak
AP gradient.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the recording
and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow
waves appear diffusely.
Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity is present in the left frontocentral region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent left frontocentral sharp waves are present.
Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F3/C3 electrodes.  Frequency of sharp waves increases during
drowsiness.  They are often periodic and semiperiodic (PLEDs and quasi-PLEDs), 1-2 Hz,  occurring
in brief runs (up to 20 seconds long).  Two seizures are captured at ~ 7 min 17 seconds and 22 min
42 seconds into the recording.  They last ~ 12 seconds and 43 seconds, respectively.  The first
seizure does not an obvious clinical correlate.  The second seizure is associated with rhythmic right
Electrographically seizure #1 is characterized by rhythmic left frontocentral sharp waves that rapidly
increase in frequency (up to 2 Hz) and amplitude.  Onset of seizure #2 is obscured by EMG.  There
is appearance of rhythmic F3/C3 sharp waves that gradually increase in frequency (up to 4 Hz) and
amplitude and speed to Cz electrode.  Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good
cooperation, and produces diffuse symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation is
not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, two, left, frontocentral: sz #2 associated with right arm shaking
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), occasional, left, frontocentral; also quasi-
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, moderate, left, frontocentral
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal awake and drowsy 24 minute EEG due to left frontocentral focal slowing,
left frontocentral semi-periodic and periodic epileptiform discharges and 2 brief focal left
frontocentral seizures. These findings are indicative of a structural lesion and an epileptogenic
focus in the left frontocentral region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team at the
time of the record review.  Patient will be placed on continuous EEG monitoring.

