TIME:  Recording start time is 01:09 p.m., recording ending is 1:32 p.m. Recording length is 23 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  She has a history significant for diabetes, hypertension, and kidney transplant in 2007.  Current indication for this study is altered mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  She is currently on no seizure medications.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation was not performed, but photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the record opens there is mild disorganization of the background with the appearance of central theta activity in the 5-7 Hz range superimposed on a posterior dominant rhythm that achieves only about 8 Hz.  The posterior dominant rhythm is reactive to eye opening, but throughout the recording it appears as though the patient is clinically either drowsy or falling asleep.  There is a small amount of frontal central beta activity identified.  Unfortunately, much of the tracing is obscured by muscle artifact from recurrent eye blinks and forehead and body movement.
Stage 1 sleep is characterized by slowing of the existing posterior dominant rhythm.  Stage 2 sleep is characterized by the appearance of vertex waves.
Hyperventilation was not performed.
Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and did not induce a significant photic driving response.
Heart rate varied between 70 and 90 beats per minute.
There were no spikes or sharp waves identified.  There were no electrographic seizures identified.  There were no clinical events noted by the technician.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG capturing wakefulness through stage 2 sleep due to the presence of nearly continuous background focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The presence of diffuse background slowing is seen in toxic metabolic encephalopathies, or may indicate more extensive diffuse severe brain injury.  If clinically indicated, a repeat tracing for longer periods may be helpful in assessing this patient.



