History:	43 year old woman with history of seizure.  Seizures are characterized by staring
spells and tonic-clonic convulsions.
Medications:	None since march
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9.5Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During brief drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow
waves appear diffusely, followed by symmetric vertex waves.
Occasional polymorphic theta activity is seen in the right midtemporal region.  Intermittent
independent right posterior temporal (T6) and frequent right anterior quadrant (Fp2 and F8) sharp
waves with aftergoing slow waves are present.  The latter discharges frequently occur in brief (up to
16 second) bursts of semirhythmic  discharges with a repetition rate of 1-2 Hz.  Discharges increase
in frequency during sleep.  No electrographic seizures are captured.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
induces symmetric photic driving.  HR 60
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, mild, right temporal, mid
Sharp waves, frequent, right anterior, frequently occur in brief runs organized in semirhythmic
Sharp waves, intermittent, right temporal, posterior, increase in frequency in sleep
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal awake and drowsy 43 minute ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG due to
intermittent mild right midtemporal focal slowing and independent right anterior/ frontal>>
posterior temporal epileptiform discharges that increase in frequency during sleep.  These findings
indicate focal cerebral dysfunction and a potential epileptogenic focus over the right
frontotemporal region.  No electrographic seizures are present.  I have attempted to contact the
patient and patient's listed emergency contact to notify her of the results.


