History:	24 YR FEMALE WITH CC OF STATUS.  PMHX: MENINGITIS ENCEPHALITIS AT
AGE 3, VNS 2013 (JEFFERSON), IBS.
Medications:	KEPPRA, LACOSEMIDE, TOPAMAX, KLONOPIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from 03/13/2014 to 03/14/414.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG tea
m for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	10
Description of pushbutton events
Multiple push button only 8 seizures. See report
Description:
Infrequently a posterior dominant rhythm reaches 9 Hz  Overall the background activity becomes
intermittently disorganized diffuse delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to
posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
Almost continuous focal slowing is present over the right centro-temporal region and bifrontal
regions.  High amplitude epileptiform discharges are seen in the central region at C3/CZ and CZ/C4
at times with a more frontal component.  These appear in rhythmic bursts for seconds.  Frequent
bilateral frontal discharges are seen at F7 and F8 independently.  Eight clinical seizures were
captured. The EEG reveals a sudden diffuse attenuation followed by a diffuse beta discharge that
slows down in frequency and suddenly stops. The seizures last 15-25 seconds.  Clinically the eyes
open and roll backwards. The mouth opens and exhibits tonic unilateral grimacing. The arms may
also tremble while they slowly rise. The behavior suddenly stops at the end of the seizure.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 114  On two occasions the
family pressed the button and the patient had her eyes closed and was slow to respond.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure
Sharp waves
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of 8 clinical seizures with a diffuse and unclear onset. There
are also frequent bifrontal independent as well as central spike and sharp waves, which are
supportive of a multifocal or symptomatic generalized epilepsy.  In addition, diffuse background
slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.

