REASON FOR STUDY:  Classification and differential of seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 49-year-old woman with a reported history of MS and episodes of shaking and unconsciousness, here for differential and classification of events.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed for 24 hours using the standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and the deeper stages of sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  None.
SEIZURES:  None.
PUSHBUTTONS:  The patient had 2 pushbuttons and events, 1 occurred at 3:43 p.m..  The microphone was not working and at the beginning of the episode she was outside the range of the camera; however, seconds later, the camera was placed on her and she appears to be laying on the recliner chair shaking her left arm and left leg.  This continues to occur while she remains unresponsive for a period of around 5 minutes.  During this episode the EEG remains unchanged with a normal posterior dominant rhythm and no EEG correlate.  A second episode occurred at 8 p.m., specifically 8:08 p.m..  Again, the microphone was not working and I could not hear what was occurring but she was speaking to an individual when she suddenly started trembling her whole body and shaking unresponsive for a period of about 5 5or 6 minutes.  The patient at one point stopped as the nurses came in and restarted shaking with her head moving back and fourth and her torso shaking irregularly and her arms fling unresponsive.  Again, during this episode, the EEG had no changes and there was a normal background seen in between the movement artifact.
HEART RATE:  72.
IMPRESSION:  Normal awake and asleep EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a normal awake and sleep EEG.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.  The 2 episodes captured above have no EEG correlate and are consistent with the diagnosis of psychogenic nonepileptic events.  This is day 2 recording of epilepsy monitoring unit admission for this patient.



