CLINICAL HISTORY: 23 year old left handed male with cerebral palsy, static encephalopathy, seizure-free, off seizure medications for years. Past history of ticks.

MEDICATIONS: Miralax, Debrox.

INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is able to sit still during portions of the record. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG includes 6 Hz theta frequency activity in a very active individual who is moving about. There are bursts of sharply contoured activity or sharp waves in the left temporal region at T3 and T5. As the recording continues, the patient's cooperation is poor. Additional epileptiform activity is seen in the left frontal region and can be differentiated from the patient's EKG artifact. Other challenges in this EEG include EKG artifact, frequent eye blink, The individual has great difficulty cooperating through the EEG and as the recording continues, there is a one-on-one aid to help the individual sit still. In relaxed wakefulness, there is rhythmic 7Hz theta on the right, not identified on the left. The activity is right central, posterior temporal and occipital. At 8:38:25, there is an increase in paroxysmal activity in the record. The patient's vocalizations are associated with an arousal but without definitive epileptiform activity. These sections of the record are associated with higher amplitude more rhythmic theta.

HR: 126 bpm

IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Generalized background slowing.
2. A section of the record with asymmetry with disruption of the rhythmic theta on the
left compared to the right.
3. Left frontal and frontotemporal sharp waves.
4. Paroxysmal higher amplitude theta with arousal. CLINICAL CORRELATION: In comparison to a previous EEG in 2007, this is a better quality study in an individual with great difficulty sitting still. There was epileptiformactivity but the patient's behaviors and vocalizations are not associated with a definitive ictal pattern. Changes in this EEG in comparison the previous study may simply be related to the fact that the patient was able to cooperate a bit better today.





