History:	71 year male with seizures. Last seizure occurred 1 week ago. PMH is significant for
CAD, kidney disease, strokes
Medications:	Keppra and Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, photic
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with faster waveforms over the right hemisphere.
The background over the right consists of PDR that reaches 8.5 Hz, excess theta activity and
fragmented AP gradient/  There is no PDR or AP gradient over the left.  The background over the
right consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta activity with overriding prominent polymorphic
continuous delta activity that intermittently becomes rhythmic during sleep (TIRDA).  Additional
polymorphic delta activity is present over the left posterior quadrant.  Drowsiness is characterized by
Intermittent left temporoparietal sharp waves with after going slow waves are captured.  Maximal
scalp negativity occurs over T5/P3 electrodes.  These epileptiform discharges have a broad field.
Frequency of epileptiform discharges increases significantly during drowsiness and they become
more rhythmic, occurring in up to 20 second runs with a regular repetition rate of 1-2 Hz.  There is
no spatial or temporal evolution into electrographic seizures.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  HR 60 with PVCs and PACs.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left posterior, moderate-to-severe
Sharp waves, intermittent, left temporoparietal
TIRDA (temporal intermittent rhythmic delta activity), intermittent, left, during drowsiness
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 26- minute EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; (2)
continuous moderate left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the posterior quadrant
and (3) intermittent left temporoparietal epileptiform discharges that increase in frequency and
periodicity during drowsiness.  Diffuse slowing indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which
is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous focal slowing is indicative of a focal structural lesion.
There is a potentially epileptogenic focal structural lesion in the left temporoparietal region.  A
single EKG lead demonstrates frequent premature QRS complexes.


