REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 55-year-old woman found in asystole arrived at the hospital on 06/18/2013 at 8 a.m. in asystole down 11 minutes, but unknown how long previous to this, now with intermittent myoclonic jerks.  She has a past medical history of being a drug abuser, HIV, diabetes, hypertension, COPD, emphysema, hepatitis B, asthma, heart disease and obese.

MEDICATIONS:  Patient does receive Depakote and Versed during the recording.

INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed from 06/19/2013 to 06/20/2013 for 16 hours using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system and single of EKG electrode.  Patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed. Continuous spike wave detection as well as seizure detection itself as well as nurses events and personal review of the EEG was performed.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record has a background that appears to have no normal organization or posterior dominant rhythm or frontal center beta.  Overall, there is a diffuse mainly alpha pattern seen throughout the recording in all electrodes, mainly in the frontal electrodes which is suggestive of an alpha pattern.  There is no normal sleep architecture, no activating procedures were performed.

Abnormal discharges:  Diffuse alpha frequency throughout the entire recording.

Seizures:  During the recording, the EEG will reveal intermittent infrequent irregular central sharp waves that slowly start increasing in frequency and amplitude and over the period of an hour, evolving to diffuse central frontal predominant spike in wave discharge, that is present throughout the entire brain. This pattern again lasts up to an hour and has no clear clinical correlate.  On the 2 occasions where this pattern occurred in this recording, it was stopped with the use of Versed.  Again, a background in between the seizures will be the one described before.

Heart rate:  120.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to generalized electrographic non convulsive seizures.  In addition to abnormal background most consistent with alpha coma.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of non convulsive status epilepticus with generalized onset pattern.  In addition, the background is suggestive of an alpha pattern which has a poor prognosis.  However, the medications may have some part in the presentation of this background and no clear or final prognostic indicators or indications can be given.  Please note that the seizure did respond to Versed and I will defer to the primary team.



