DATE OF STUDY:  08/15/2013 to 08/16/2013, for a total of 24 hours.

REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 25-year-old man with a history of a past tumor resection, chemotherapy and radiation therapy, and previous history of localization related epilepsy who returns with multiple seizures.

MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, Dilantin, Depakote.

INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Continuous spike detection as well as seizure detection software as well as nurses' notes were all used in addition to reviewing the EEG to make this report.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record begins with a background that is slightly slow, particularly the posterior dominant rhythm appears to be mainly in the theta frequency, about 7 Hz, and it is best seen over the right hemisphere.  There is some frontal beta that starts to be seen some hours into the recording which continues to improve as well as the background increases in frequency.  Some sleep architecture is seen, and state changes are noted.  No activating procedures were performed.

Abnormal discharges:
1. Focal slow waves seen continuously over the left hemisphere, maximal at F3/C3 as well as T5/P3 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts.  This slowing is seen continuously throughout the recording.
2. Generalized slowing at 5 to 7 Hz, seen at early onset of the recording.  It appears to improve slowly throughout the lasts hours of the recording.

Seizures:  At 10:09 p.m., there appears to be an occipital seizure commencing at O1 with intermittent theta frequency sharp waves that continue to increase in frequency and amplitude but remain over the left occipital hemisphere and continue to discharge for about 20 minutes.  During this time there appears to be no clinical correlate to the patient seen in the video.

Heart rate 90.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to a single left occipital electrographic seizure, in addition to continuous left hemispheric slowing and mild generalized slowing.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with a single electrographic seizure arising from the left occipital region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral structural dysfunction in the left hemisphere, maximal in the central frontal region, which is consistent with the known tumor resection.  Lastly, there is evidence of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction,


which may be due, at least in part, to medication effect.  These findings were reported continuously to the primary team.




