History:	83 YR OLD MALE PRESENTS WITH H/O CAD S/P CABG, COPD, HTN, HLD, PAD,
S/P CAROTID BYPASS PRESENTING S/P PEA ARREST ON 3/20/14 X 30 MIN.
Medications:	Versed, Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 03/21/2014 to 03/22/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses
and EEG technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team
for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse
attenuation with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  This
pattern improves slightly with some burst of low amplitude theta seen intermittently in a burst
suppression pattern.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  Rare generalized frontally-maximal spikes are present intermittently
with stimulation.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation, nearly continuous
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), intermittent, with stimulation.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL EEG because of  intermittent generalized frontal maximal periodic
discharges and severe diffuse background attenuation which improved to a intermittent low
amplitude burst suppression pattern.  These findings in the setting of hypoxic injury and the absence
of sedation forebode a poor prognosis.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.

