
CLINICAL HISTORY: 46 year old male with trauma subdural hematoma in June of 2010, status post craniectomy, admitted after an episode with language arrest and followed by aggressive behavior.

MEDICATIONS: Keppra, Metoprolol, Gabapentin, others.

INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is quite angry during the EEG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates prominent intrahemispheric asymmetry with a prominent breech rhythm. The right hemisphere includes a 9 Hz alpha rhythm with excess beta and theta. The left hemisphere demonstrates a high amplitude breach rhythm with sharp waves at F3. Complex epileptiform activity is observed with a sharp wave that starts at F3 and ends and spreads to the left parietooccipital region.

The epileptiform activity is prominent in nature, has a polyphasic component. It waxes and wanes. The patient is conversant during the EEG. The discharges demonstrate build-up. This is noted on several occasions during the record but also it can be observed at 2:40:53. Ativan is administered although clinically the patient's mental status is unchanged. The activity slows a bit but is continuing when the record ends at 2:53.

HR: 84 bpm

IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Modest slowing from the right.
2. Breach rhythm from the left with higher amplitude arrhythmic delta activity.
3. Complex epileptiform activity in the left hemisphere which starts out in the left frontal region but transitions to the parietal region.
4. Bursts of epileptiform activity which transition after the use of Ativan to more of an initially C3 and then P3 focus.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG supports a highly irritative focus in the left hemisphere. In comparison to previous monitoring, there was epileptiform activity in the left frontal region with polyspike activity. The activity is more paroxysmal today.


