CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 19-year-old gentleman admitted with increased seizure activity. Seizure onset was at age 7 characterized by shaking of his hands and hitting of his legs.  Patient knows when a seizure will occur.
MEDICATIONS: Depakote.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the Long-term Video EEG Monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a significant amount of muscle movement artifact, but with a 9 Hz, 30 V posterior dominant rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta activity. At 9:00 hyperventilation was performed, which did not cause clinical seizures or produce an EEG correlate.
EVENTS: There are four push button events by the patient.  The first occurs at 14:09:54 and the patient is awake with right hand tremor but no EEG change.
The second event occurred at 14:14:32.  The patient pushed the button and said, “I feel like I am going to have a seizure,” with left arm tremulousness.  This lasted for about 1 to 2 minutes.  The patient was AAO x 3 and could talk.  No EEG correlate was seen.
The third push button event occurred at 20:13:28.  At that time, the patient was watching TV and was tremulous, but otherwise this was a normal awake state.  No EEG changes were seen.
At 01:27:16 the patient pushed the button and complained that he felt dizzy and thought that he may be having a seizure.  His right arm was shaking but no shaking was identified by the nurse.  Again, the patient was AAO and no EEG correlate was identified.
After the last event, the patient fell asleep and slow rolling eye movements with a mixed frequency followed by vertex waves, spindles, and POSTS were seen.  Stage III sleep was characterized by increased delta activity between 20 to 50%.  Stage IV sleep was characterized by more than 50% high amplitude theta activity in the epoch.  During sleep, rare right temporal sharp waves were seen.
HR: 96 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1.	Rare right temporal sharp activity during sleep.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: The right temporal sharp activity may be a partial mechanism for this patient’s seizure activity.  However, when the patient pushed the button and stated that he was having a seizure, no EEG correlate was identified throughout this long-term monitoring.  Continuous long-term monitoring may be able to reveal further information.




