CLINICAL HISTORY:  52 year old male with status epilepticus in November, seizure­ free. The patient had an EEG on the 18th, stopped his seizure medication, and was reportedly partying with his friends, and returned to the emergency room complaining of impaired memory; on going,     peculiar behavior.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Lisinopril, Digoxin,   Lasix, Aldactone, Coumadin, Allopurinol,
·
Colchicine
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. The patient is somewhat peculiar but follows commands.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG demonstrates a relatively slower, lower voltage background with PLED-like activity in  the left posterior quadrant with a PLED-plus component.  It is nearly positive in the left occipital region with  a mixed frequency discharge and a degree of periodicity.
The activity evolves  into a seizure at 4:14 and then terminates by 4:15 with the appearance of alpha frequency activity and then another burst of activity at 4:15:08. Additional bursts occur during the record with another more prolonged burst at 4:20:20
of approximately 30 seconds duration.
There is no significant change in  the patients mental status during the bursts or in the interburst interval, and he is able to move his extremities to command during the bursts. As the patient transitions toward sleep at the end of the EEG, the activity has more of a mid-to- posterior temporal field of spread.  In  addition, with stimulation at the end of the
record the patient sits up, and when he does so, to some extent the activity attenuates.
HR: 	60 bpm and irregular with frequent ectopy.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.   Compatible with a complex partial status epilepticus.
LONG TERM MONITORING -11-05-01/20/2011
INTRODUCTION: Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is confused. Two clinical seizures are observed on the morning of January 20, 2011.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates intermittent, periodic sharp activity with polyphasic component and fast activity. This activity has a generous field of spread in the left posterior quadrant and can be maximum at T3I 02, TsorT3.
On two occasions on the morning of January 20,2011the activity builds up and appears to be clinically symptomatic, including at 1104 when the patient has tremulousness of the left hand and stares. This burst is approximately 20 seconds long. This Is followed shortly thereafter by another burst with focal motor activity in the right arm, hand, and right thorax. The patient does not appear to have been aware of the events, does not push the buttons for the nurse. A nurse enters some minutes later, finds the patient confused. He asks for help using his cell phone and calls his girlfriend.
HR:   78bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.   Focal slowing in the left posterior quadrant.
2.		Epileptiform activity which is periodic in nature, but waxes and wanes, and does respond to both Ativan and tactile stimuli with a generous field of spread.
3. 	Two brief clinical seizures, which are focal in nature with focal motor features.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: With the combination of a confusional state and prominent epileptiform activity, this should be considered a late form of status epilepticus



