HISTORY:
This is a 79-year-old woman admitted on Sunday, July 31 with change in mental status, seizure, and right frontal stroke.
MEDICATIONS:
Initially midazolam drip and lacosamide. Dilantin and Keppra were given in the early sections of the record. Later,
lacosamide
INTRODUCTION:
Continuous video EEG monitoring is performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode
placement with one channel EKG. The patient is intubated and poorly responsive
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:
August 3 to 4, 2011
The initial sections of the EEG demonstrated right frontal periodic complex, which is bifid in nature. The complex is
relatively invariant. Stimulation of the patient produces an increased and faster frequency activity in the left frontal region.
During the course of the recording, a Versed drip is initiated. Subsequently, the patient's blood pressure declines to
80/50 and Versed drip of 2 mg/hour is stopped. The use of the Versed drip produces relative compression of the
background on the right, which is continuous at a frequency of approximately 0.5 to 1 Hz.
August 4 to August 5, the Versed drip is discontinued on August 4 due to the patient's hypotension. Subsequently, the
background EEG demonstrates an increasingly rich pattern from the left with some 8 Hz activity. Behaviorally, the patient
is more reactive The right hemisphere continues to demonstrate a markedly suppressed pattern with high amplitude
right frontal periodic complex. During this section of the record, the background on the left waxes and wanes, sometimes
it is slower than other times. Over time, the periodic complexes appear to be abating, slowing down in nature. There is a
little bit of PLEDs-plus. By the end of the record, the left hemisphere is a bit slower than it was in other sections.
Heart rate 120 bpm.
IMPRESSION:
1
Continuous video EEG monitoring to this individual demonstrate right frontal periodic complexes, which were
improving by the end of the EEG.
2.
Marked slowing from the right.
3
Moderate slowing from the left, which in fact is a bit more prominent at the end of the recording and in the beginning.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
This EEG is supportive of an irritative, structural lesion in the right frontal region.



