DATE OF THE RECORDING:  02/04/2013 from approximately 5:00 p.m. until 02/05/2013 until approximately 9:00 a.m. Total length of the recording about 16 hours.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 31-year-old woman with a history of starring spells from approximately 3 to 4 years of age until about 12 years of age treated with phenytoin at that time.  In the last year she developed episodes of generalized shaking lasting approximately 15 minutes without tongue biting.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include Keppra 500 mg twice a day, lamotrigine 50 mg twice a day, Zoloft and others.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The patient was on continuous video audio EEG monitoring.  The recording was reviewed at least once in a 24 hour period.  Spike detection and seizure detection were activated.  The patient was equipped with a pushbutton event.  The nursing staff notes and medical staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of low amplitude 8.5 to 9.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During sleep symmetrical vertex waves, sleep spindles, prolonged epochs of slow wave sleep, and several epoch of REM sleep are captured.  Rare bursts of polymorphic variable amplitude theta are delta are captured over the left anterior temporal region.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  There is continuous electrocardiogram artifact throughout the recording.
FINDINGS:
Occasional mild left anterior temporal focal slowing.
Large portions of the recording are captured during sleep.
No epileptiform discharges.
No typical events.
IMPRESSION:  This is a mildly abnormal 16 hour EEG due to occasional mild focal left anterior temporal slowing.  This finding indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.  No typical events were captured.  The patient is drowsy or asleep throughout large portions of the recording.  This could indicate excessive baseline drowsiness.



