History:	65 year old woman who presented after a presumed syncopal event.  After the
admission, she had another witnessed event characterized by staring,
unresponsiveness and arm jerking.
Medications:	no AEDs
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse excess beta activity is present.  Underriding monomorphic diffuse
delta activity is captured- it increases in frequency with drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the alpha
rhythm attenuates, EMG artifact resolves and degree of underriding delta activity increases.
Subtle additional polymorphic delta activity is noted over the right anterior temporal region.
Occasional moderate-to-high amplitude right anterior temporal sharp waves with aftergoing waves
are captured.  Maximal scalp negativity occurs over F8/T2 leads.  Frequency of these discharges
increases with drowsiness.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
symmetric background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does
not produce additional abnormalities.  A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate of ~ 60 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, moderate
Sharp waves, occasional, right temporal, anterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 30 minute awake and drowsy EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing: (2) subtle
intermittent focal moderate right anterior temporal slowing and (3) occasional right anterior
temporal epileptiform discharges. Diffuse slowing is indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction,
which is etiologically nonspecific.  Intermittent right anterior temporal focal slowing and occasional
right anterior temporal epileptiform discharges indicate a focal structural cerebral abnormality with
increased epileptogenic potential.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.




