CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 40-year-old woman with known moyamoya disease, status post anastomosis on the left, now for anastomosis on right.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, gabapentin, Topamax, fentanyl, propofol, sevoflurane, and phenylephrine.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital EEG was performed in the OR using a modified 10-20 system of electrode placement.  The patient has a previous craniotomy on the left, and electrode placement was modified on the right.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Operative approach was to dissect the superficial temporal artery.  The artery was laid upon the pial surface and there was no clamping or anastomosis noted.  The patient's blood pressure was noted to vary somewhat during the EEG.  As the tracing begins, patient is awake with well defined posterior dominant rhythm on the right and left.  There is intermittent focal slowing noted from either hemisphere, left or right.  In the initial sections of the record, there is good quality recording of the electrodes.
Anesthetic medications are increased at 8:04.  This produces an anesthetic pattern with intermittent attenuation.  As the surgeon embarks upon the procedure on the right, there are some issues with electrode placement and some of the electrodes are more tenuous.
Intermittent attenuations were noted just before 9 a.m. and some of these are a bit more prominent on the right at 8:45, but there are also more electrode problems.
By 9:22, the T4-T6 and T6-O2 electrodes are significantly more impaired.  There are very intermittent, subtle attenuations noted, but when present they are slightly more prominent on the right compared to the left.  At this time, no change in the circulation in the right hemisphere has been made.
Bovie and other electrode artifacts were noted.
By 9:45, the T4 electrode had been moved for the surgical site.
Irrigation at 11:41 resulted in additional electrode compromise.
Between 11 a.m. and noon, the overall background demonstrated some fluctuations, but faster frequency was essentially identical in the 2 hemispheres aside from the breach rhythm. There was no sustained focal slowing on the right.
Heart rate 90 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This was a technically challenging, 4.5 hour intraoperative EEG recording.  It was remarkable for:
Intermittent generalized attenuation, compatible with anesthetic effect.
Intermittent, subtle changes in the right hemisphere, which are of unclear significance given the tenuousness of the recording on the right.
Clinical correlation:  No sustained focal features were noted.
This EEG monitoring session included 45 minutes 1:1 physician interpretation in the OR and a total of 60 minutes remote review by medical staff.



