TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 50-year-old ambidextrous gentleman with history of right subcortical CVA with hemorrhagic transformation and pre-existing epilepsy with left frontotemporal encephalomalacia who presents for a preop EEG for right carotid endarterectomy.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient's medications include Dilantin, nortriptyline, aspirin, lisinopril, Tricor, and fluoxetine.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the lab using a standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to one channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation are performed to see tracing captures wakefulness only.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was asymmetric and characterized by 9-10 Hz in frequency, 30-40 microvolts in amplitude seen in the left occipital region and 8-8.5 Hz on the right side which attenuated with eye opening.  There was right hemispheric slowing in theta frequency and attenuation with loss of faster frequencies noted throughout the study. There were intermittent focal slowing in the left frontal and anterior temporal regions consisting of 5-6 Hz theta frequency activity with 30-40 microvolt amplitude lasting for 1-2 seconds, occasionally with a field to the left anterior and mid temporal region.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple/frequencies and result in no driving response. No epileptiform activity with seizures were seen in the study.  Heart rate was 90-100 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing wakefulness only due to:
Right hemispheric attenuation and slowing with loss of faster frequencies.
Intermittent left frontotemporal slowing during wakefulness.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were identified in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse attenuation and loss of faster frequencies in the right hemispheric could be seen in the structural lesions of the underlying cerebral cortex or fluid accumulation in the extra-axial space.  Right hemispheric slowing is suggestive of subcortical structure or functional abnormalities. Focal left frontal and temporal slowing could be suggestive of an underlying structural abnormality in the left hemisphere or left frontotemporal dysfunction.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities were seen in this record. This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.
Please note that the patient is tachycardic.



