CLINICAL HISTORY:  67 year old gentleman with a history of seizures who presented to the hospital with recurrent seizures.  He currently remains with impaired mental status, concerning for a nonconvulsive status epilepticus.

MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Versa drip, Aspirin, Vancomycin, Zosyn.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  During maximal wakefulness, no clear posterior dominant rhythm or anterior to posterior frequency of the gradient is observed.  Instead, the recording consists of low amplitude fast activity admixed with underlying theta and occasional delta.  During periods of quiescence, increase in the amount of beta activity is present with bursts of brief, about 1 second, spindle-like activity.  No clear sleep architecture is identified.  At the end of the recording, with stimulation, frontally predominant rhythmic 6 to 7 Hz activity is captured.  It does not appear to evolve spatially or temporally, and there does not appear to be a correlation with a change in the exam.  This event lasts about 30 seconds and could potentially represent an electrographic seizure.  Tachycardia is captured on a single EKG lead.

FINDINGS:
1. Excess beta.
2. Moderate diffuse slowing.
3. Possible primarily bifrontal 30-second electrographic seizure without clear clinical correlate during the period of stimulation.

IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a very abnormal, about 20.02 minute EEG due to disorganized background and possible primarily bifrontal 30-second electrographic focal seizure.  These findings indicate diffuse cerebral dysfunction that in this case is partially related to medication effect, primarily from Versa drip.  A potential electrographic seizure could be a sign of an underlying focal pathology in the bifrontal regions.  The patient will be connected to long-term EEG monitoring.  These findings were discussed with the primary team.



