CLINICAL HISTORY:  85 year old female, presents with status epilepticus.  She has a history of COPD, CHF and hypertension.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, Ativan, Etomidate, Dilantin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video long-term EEG was performed for 12 hours using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while she was unresponsive.  No activating procedures were performed.  Continuous spike detection software as well as seizure detection software and patient events noted by nurse and alarms were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  At the end of the recorder, there was marked muscle artifact and some electrodes were affected due to patient movement.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background which at times where the stimulation appears to reveal a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 8 Hz.  There is also with stimulation some increased and better seen frontocentral beta.  In between these periods of stimulation, there is a generalized diffuse background, so it is at times intermittent frontal predominant theta and alpha frequencies.  Some patterns of sleep may be seen at times during the recording.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Intermittent F8/T4 and F7/T3 focal slowing seen throughout the recording at times appears to be sharply contoured, but not clear epileptiform.
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts which appear to improve with stimulation as stated above.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Intermittent bilateral anterior temporal slow waves.
Generalized slow waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in both anterior temporal lobes with additional diffuse cerebral dysfunction, all of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.



