CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 38-year-old man with childhood head trauma and development of epilepsy as an young adult. 5 year history of  Complex partial seizures followed by tonic-clonic seizures 5 years ago.  Current seizure frequency, unknown, intermittent dizziness.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.  This was a technically acceptable EEG with impedances below 5 kilohms with the exception of the T1-T2 electrodes.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, the EEG is well organized.  There is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm, which is symmetric and reactive to eye opening.  Somewhat irregular mixed theta delta was noted in the frontal central regions. It is present bilaterally, but is somewhat more prominent in the right hemisphere.
Hyperventilation was performed early on in the record and very quickly produces a feeling in the patient of dizziness and jitteriness.  Bursts of frontal theta are noted, somewhat irregular and a little bit more prominent on the right in hyperventilation.  Photic stimulation was performed immediately after hyperventilation, in the early parts of the record and did elicit a driving response.  The patient remained quite anxious and there is a great deal of muscle artifact noted in the background.  In this challenging EEG with a great deal of muscle artifact, there appears to be an underlying 4 hertz spike and wave complex, typically seen in the right hemisphere sometimes with a bihemispheric predominance.  Review of the video identifies no twitching of the patient during the discharges.
Heart rate:  66 bpm.  Frequent PVCs.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Intermittent rhythmic somewhat irregular theta delta noted in relaxed wakefulness, and somewhat accentuated by hyperventilation.
In this technically challenging EEG, likely an underlying spike and wave complex seen a bit more prominently in the right hemisphere, but sometimes of bilateral representation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In comparison to a previous study 5 years ago, the patient had 3-5 hertz frontally predominant spike and wave activity as well as right frontal spike and wave activity and right
focal slowing.  Because of the degree of muscle artifact, these findings are not as well identified.  Additional evaluation of the patient regarding the tremulousness and PVCs may be of value.




