CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 55-year-old woman with a history of right mesial temporal sclerosis, childhood epilepsy which recurred at age 20 and then worsened after  colostomy surgery some years ago.  The patient may have missed medications and had multiple prolonged seizures today, followed by  postictal agitation.  The patient typically has an aura for smaller seizures and has several complex partial or simple partial seizures per week.
MEDICATIONS:  Seroquel, lamotrigine, Klonopin, Keppra, Zoloft.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was quite agitated during the EEG.  Her previous EEGs were not available for comparison.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Much of the EEG includes muscle and motion artifact, but underneath this there is a pattern with beta and background theta.  When the patient is resting quietly, there is sections of the record with rhythmic, left temporal focal slowing.  Some of this is sharply contoured and some of it transitions to the left posterior temporal region.  The patient drifts into sleep with more rhythmic beta and alpha frequency activity and bursts of FIRDA.  Occasional POSTS were noted.  Attempts to interact with the patient produced confusion, agitation and a complaint of pain.  By the end of the EEG she is talking and when she does so there is a suggestion of a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  The focal slowing is noted again a bit more prominently in the left hemisphere, center parietal and posterior temporally.
Heart rate 104 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Background slowing and disorganization most prominent in the initial sections of the record.
Focal slowing seen from the left hemisphere often with  left posterior predominance, but also with some temporal spread.
Sharply contoured slowing, again T3, but again a relatively prominent posterior spread.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In this individual with a history of cerebral atrophy and right mesial temporal sclerosis as well as a stroke, the EEG findings may be reflective of an acute or chronic pathology in the left hemisphere.  There were no sharp waves or spikes noted from the right temporal region.  Previous EEGs were not available for comparison.



