CLINICAL HISTORY:  22 year old right handed female with a history of seizures with increased number of seizures recently, refractory to multiple medications, also with a history of nonepileptic spells.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Lamotrigine, Zonisamide.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizure classification.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term monitoring EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and EKG electrodes.  Video recording was also performed.  Continuous spike detection software as well as seizure detection software along with the patient's alarms and nurses' notes were used to review the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm of 9 to 10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  The patient has a normal amount of frontocentral beta.  No activating procedures were performed.  The patient was recorded in stage I and stage II and deep slow-wave sleep.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Only during sleep, some focal sharp waves were seen with a large field at FB2/F8 with small bursts seen rarely.
DAY 1:  Two events occurred during the first day of recording.  One occurred at 1:48 p.m. and the other one occurred at 11:07 p.m.  During both of them, the patient suddenly stated that she did not feel well and suddenly started having right arm shaking and moving side to side with her eyes closed with irregular body motions and hand shaking.  During the first event, she would also lift her legs and move side to side while unresponsive.  This lasted about 2 to 3 minutes, then stopped and the patient was back to herself.  The second one was of similar clinical presentation; however, the flapping and shifting side to side was much more aggressive and severe.  This lasted about 3 minutes.  During both events, the EEG appeared to remain normal with no epileptiform activity or EEG correlate to these events.
LONG TERM MONITORING – 12-57 – 05/09/2012 TO 05/10/2012
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Day 2:  The record opens to a well defined posterior dominant rhythm which reaches 9 Hz with a normal frontal central beta.  This patient is recorded in stage I, stage II, stage III, and REM sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  During sleep, specifically stage II to III, the patient appears to have some frequent bifrontal sharp waves at FP2, as well as some more temporal sharp waves.  There is also bursts of slowing with sharply contoured activity seen with multifocal regions more frontal more temporal, but not clear if it is epileptic.
No events were captured during this 24-hour recording.
SEIZURES:  None
This is long-term, day #3, 05/09/2012 to 05/10/2012, a total of 24 hour
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Day #3.
Abnormal discharges:  As stated above, focal sharp waves seen intermittently in sleep with abrupt at times more prominent in the right frontal region at FP-2 and sometimes F4, and quickly moving toward the right temporal lobe.  At times there are sharp waves that appear to be left frontal, FP3, and sometimes they appear to be more at T6 P3.  These are at times all seen in complexes that last for 1 to 2 seconds, usually mainly in sleep.
SEIZURES:
Complex partial seizure #1.  occurred on 05/09/2012 at 12:31 p.m. and ended at 12:34 p.m., with a total duration of 2 minutes and 14 seconds.  Description of seizure:  The patient is laying on her left side while asleep.  Suddenly she arouses, opens her eyes, and jolts her body, then her right arm moves up and becomes tonic while her left hand becomes dystonic in a spooning fashion.  The right arm then continues to lower down and stretches forward along with the left arm while her eyes go back and her moans.  She then starts having clonic jerks of both arms and body.  The lower extremities cannot be visualized clearly in the video.  She continues to have clonic jerks while moaning and then slowly the jerks start decreasing in frequency and then they stop with the last ictal jerk on the left hand.  Afterward, she lays in bed unresponsive.  She is not tested during the entire seizure.
EEG during seizure #1:  At onset, there is a generalized attenuation of faster frequencies followed by a generalized polyspike discharge that appears to be slightly more predominant over the right hemisphere than the left with no clear area of maximality, which in about 20 seconds appears to settle on the right temporal lobe more than the left and continues to evolve in frequency and then spread to the frontal region of the right hemisphere and then seen later spreading through the frontal lobe of the left hemisphere and then generalizing and obscured by muscle artifact.  At the end of the seizure there appears to be diffuse attenuation.
Tonic-clonic seizure #2 occurred at 4:00 in the morning and ended at 4:02 in the morning.  Seizure description:  The patient again is asleep, this time laying on her right side.  The patient opens her eyes about 8 seconds into the electrographic seizure but does not move until about 30 seconds after the electrographic seizure begins.  Suddenly both hands become dystonic and stiff while stretching forward slightly, and she remains tonic with tonic stress posturing for about 20 to 30 seconds.  Afterward she starts having tonic-clonic movements of both arms while moaning repeatedly.  She continues to do this until the jerks, after increasing frequency, start decreasing in frequency and then later stop.
EEG description:  Again, at the onset of the seizure, there appears to be a slight diffuse attenuation and slowing with no clear onset but appears to have a slight right-sided predominance, although it is mainly generalized with polyspikes that appear to be somewhat temporal and frontal maximal.  As the seizure evolves in frequency, it appears to settle slightly over the right temporal lobe, then spreading quickly to the prefrontal region bilaterally and then is obscured by muscle artifact.  At the end of the seizure, there is diffuse attenuation seen.
SEIZURES #3:  Occurred at 06:13 in the morning and ended at 6:15 in the morning.  Seizure description:  The patient is again asleep and opens her eyes about 8 seconds into the seizure, but lays there still and about 20 seconds later her eyes rolled up and her both arms lift up in the air in a dystonic fashion, the right slightly more than the left, followed by stretching forward and both hands becoming dystonic, and then clonic movements increasing in frequency and then decreasing in frequency with associated grunting.  At the end, the last ictal jerk is seen on the left.  No testing was performed during this seizure, either.
EEG description:  At the onset of the seizure, again there is a diffuse slowing with a sharp wave seen, appears to be slightly maximal at T6, followed by polyspikes that appear to be more posterior than anterior and maximal maybe under the right posterotemporal region at T6 which appeared to evolve and settle mainly over T4, followed by a frontal spread and then generalized spreading and obscuration by muscle artifact.  Again, at the end of the seizure, there is diffuse slowing seen.
Day #4:
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  As previous days
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  The impression is abnormal EEG due to multifocal spikes from both hemispheres, at times with right predominance but seen in both hemispheres, as well as 3 seizures with unclear onset which appear to be generalized, at times with a right frontal slight predominance.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This long-term video monitoring unit is diagnostic of what appears to be multifocal localization related epilepsy with seizures possibly arising from the frontal and temporal regions.  In addition, the events during day 1 of recording had no EEG correlate.  As such, these events are not epileptic and are diagnostic psychogenic nonepileptic seizures.


3




