AGE: 65 y.o.
SEX: female
DATE OF STUDY: 11/30/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and drowsy EEG #: 15-1739
HISTORY:
65 y.o. female with a history of pancreatitis and Etoh abuse presenting with a witnessed GTC (unclear number of episodes; there is a report of LUE shaking). Of note, the patient was combative during the hook-up and threatening to hit the technician.
MEDICATIONS:
Keppra, Neurontin, Ativan
SEDATION : meds as above TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically challenging study, with diffuse muscle artifact and an uncooperative patient.	It included a single channel of EKG.
EEG BACKGROUND:
During most of the study, the background is obscured by diffuse high amplitude muscle artifact. During brief periods of relative relaxation, the background consists of a disorganized mixture of delta and alpha. There is no posterior dominant rhythm. There is no clear reactivity, variability, or state change.
There is spontaneous eye blink artifact.
There is severe diffuse slowing.
No definite focal slowing is present.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
1. There frequent sharply contoured delta waveforms seen diffusely over the
right central region . During periods of relative relaxation when muscle artifact attenuates somewhat, these waveforms are also seen synchronously over the right temporal (T4 max) region. They are
frequently periodic at 1 Hz for periods < 10 seconds (lateralized periodic discharges or LPDs, also known as periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges or PLEDs). This activity often reflects over the left frontal (F3 max) region.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM) :
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
The EKG strip did not produce a readable signal during this study.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal, though technically limited, awake and drowsy routine EEG due to:
Severe diffuse slowing and background disorganization , with lack of clear reactivity
Frequent right hemispheric sharply contoured delta waves, frequently seen in runs at 1 Hz for <10 seconds (LPDs, also known as PLEDs)
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings demonstrate right hemispheric potentially epileptiform activity superimposed on severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
There are no definite electrographic seizures.
These findings as well as the limited nature of the study were communicated with the primary team.
A repeat study once the patient is less agitated may be useful if clinically indicated.



