History:	54 year old male with history of subdural hematoma and now status epilepticus.
Medications:	Dilantin, Keppra, Phenobarbital, Midazolam
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 03/11/2014 to 03/12/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  On the right there is an admixture of theta and delta activity.  At the beginning there
was a burst suppression pattern which improved after the first hours of recording.  No normal sleep
Continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the left hemisphere maximal at C3 region
during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness. There is an increased amplitude over the region,
which is consistent with a breach.  There are left hemispheric PLEDs occurring intermittently
through the record. At times they appear to improve in frequency and stop. This has improved
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
Summary of Findings:
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges)
Sharp waves
Focal slowing, polymorphic
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of focal left central PLEDs. There is
continuous focal slowing in the left central region.  These findings are indicative of a focal irritative
structural lesion. Of note the PLEDs and sharp waves have become less prominent over the last 24
hours.  There is diffuse background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  these findings are
etiologically nonspecific indicators of moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  These
findings were conveyed to the primary team. architecture was present. Markedly over time.

