History:	47 YR OLD  MALE WITH PMHX OF GSW HEAD X2 25 YRS AGO. WITH
SUBSEQUENT SZS.  LAST SZ APPROX 2 DAYS AGO WITH LOC AND
POSTICTAL CONFUSION. PT REPORTS INCREA IN SZ ACTIVITY 7 IN 1 MONTH.
Medications:	DILANTIN, PT CAN'T RECALL NAME OF 2ND SZ MED
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Frontally predominant 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.
During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent. Vertex waves appear.
Continuous polymorphic delta activity in the setting of left breach rhythm is present in the left
anterior temporal region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Background activity
shows higher amplitude and accentuation of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere, consistent
with breach activity, and is frequently sharply contoured in the left frontal region.  Occasional left
anterior temporal sharp waves with phase reversal at F7-T3 are present..
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces mild diffuse
background slowing.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) induces a
minimal symmetric photic driving response.  HR is 84.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, few, left temporal, anterior, F7-T3
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left temporal
Breach artifact, continuous, left hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy EEG because of occasional epileptiform discharges in
the left anterior temporal region.  These findings are indicative of an epileptogenic focus in this
region, and given the clinical history, are consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related
epilepsy.In addition  there is continuous focal slowing in the left hemisphere maximal in the
temporal region with an associated breach.  This finding is consistent with the known GSW and
surgery in that region.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.



