History:	56 year old woman who presents with focal status epilepticus.  Patient has a history
of stroke, focal seizures and HIV.
Medications:	Depakote, Ativan
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~18 hours from 1/15/2015 till 1/16/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.   The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the left.  The
background over the right consists of 7 Hz PDR posteriorly but poor AP gradient with delta activity
anteriorly and excess polymorphic theta.  The background over the left consists of a mixture of
polymorphic theta and delta activity, predominantly delta activity anteriorly and continuous
anterior temporal periodic epileptiform discharges that occur with a regular repetition rate of ~1-1.5
Hz.  Many of the discharges are accompanied by low amplitude fast activity (PEDs-plus).  Maximal
scalp negativity occurs over T3/F7 and F3/C3 leads.  Sleep spindles are captured.
There are occasional seizures that last ~20 seconds to >2 minutes.  Seizures are characterized by
disappearance of PEDs and appearance of fast activity over the left frontal leads and rhythmic 4-5
Hz activity over the left temporal/ central leads.  This activity gradually evolves into rhythmic ~3 Hz
left hemispheric delta activity.  This rhythmic delta activity reflects over the right anterior region.
Seizure examples at 4:25:40 pm and 2:47:30 pm.  During prolonged events patient appears to
have arrest of speech and inability to follow any commands.  However, patient is not tested formally
during any of her seizures.
Summary of Findings:
Seizure, occasional, left frontotemporal, 20 sec to >2 min
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, left hemispheric
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, mild
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), continuous, severe, left, anterior temporal/ frontocentral
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous video 18 hours EEG due to (1) mild diffuse slowing; (2)
continuous left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the anterior region; (3)
continuous left anterior temporal/ frontocentral epileptiform discharges (PEDs and PEDs-plus) and
(4) occasional left hemispheric seizures that are frontotemporal in onset.  Diffuse slowing is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Continuous left
hemispheric focal slowing, continuous left anterior-temporal/ frontocentral PEDs and occasional left
hemispheric seizures are indicative of an epileptogenic focal structural lesion on the left.






