CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 59-year-old male with recurrent complex partial seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Aptiom, lisinopril, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG and T1-T2 electrodes.  Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.  A clinical complex partial seizure was recorded.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  Stage 2 sleep included vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and posts.  Brief slow wave sleep was accompanied by appropriate quantities of higher amplitude slow 2 hertz delta.
Intermittently on the morning of the 13th, the patient demonstrated intermittent rhythmic delta.  On most occasions, the rhythmic delta from the left temporal region maximum at T1, was seen in drowsiness but on some occasions, 6:28:32 (an example), the activity is present in wakefulness, but disappears with alerting.
Interictal epileptiform detections:  Independent, right or left temporal sharp waves and spikes were noted, primarily in sleep.  During sleep, the right temporal sharp waves are more prominent than they had been in previous sections of the record.  They are seen in stage II, and into slow wave sleep.
? Seizure:  Time 11:44 a.m.  The patient is alone using his computer.  Rhythmic left temporal theta was noted.  No clinical changes were noted.  At 11:55:16, the patient is using the phone.  He does not appear to have been impaired during this discharge, which seems to stop at 11:53:29 when the patient is more alert.  In fact, the rhythmic discharge seems to stop when the phone rings suggesting that this may be an interictal finding ameliorated by alerting.
Seizure 1:14:16.  The patient is sitting in bed.  This seizure begins with a dropout of the faster frequency on the right and rhythmic theta in the right temporal region as well as some muscle.  The rhythmic right temporal theta has a generous field of spread throughout the right hemisphere including the centrotemporal region through 1:14:41.  The activity starts to spread to become more bilateral at 1:14:47.  At this time, the patient starts to demonstrate automatisms.  Rhythmic repetitive theta frequency activity, which is more or less bilateral continues, but the seizure seems to be ending on the right at 1:15:20, and then the overall seizure ends at 1:15:29 for overall seizure duration of 58 to 59 seconds.
Behaviorally, the patient is speaking until 1:14:45, when asked a question the manual automatisms increase, and he demonstrates speech arrest. He has manual automatisms and some movement of the right foot.  He looks out the window to the right and had previously been looking to the left.  (The interviewer in the room was standing on the left side).  Throughout the complex partial seizure he has automatisms of both hands in the right leg.  He is sitting on the left leg.  By 1:15:48, speech has returned but he is somewhat confused while EEG demonstrates marked background slowing.  By 1:16:10, is sometimes paying attention on the left side, but looks to the right. There is no dystonic posturing
IMPRESSION:
1 clear CPS with localization to the right



