LENGTH OF RECORDING: 18 hours, 35 minutes.
INTRODUCTION: The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed. The patient was equipped with an event button. Medical staff notes and nursing notes were reviewed. The recording was reviewed at least once during the 24-hour period.
CLINICAL HISTORY: 50-year-old woman with past medical history of resection of left frontal meningioma in 2009, mastectomy, hypertension, depression and non-epileptic events. She now presents with episodes of right facial palsy, right hemiparesis accompanied by unresponsiveness and head shaking.
MEDICATIONS: None listed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The posterior dominant rhythm consists of well-formed and modulated 10 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eye opening. There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitude anteriorly. During sleep, vertex waves, sleep spindles, slow wave sleep and several epochs of REM sleep are captured. Sleep architecture is slightly more pronounced over the left hemisphere. Subtle occasional theta activity is captured over the left frontal region during sleep. Additionally, under riding faster frequencies are observed over the left frontal region. At least 3 typical events are captured. These events are characterized by patient pushing the event button followed by head shaking to the left, eyes looking to the left, left arm posturing as well as turning to the right and back arching. There is significant EMG and movement artifact throughout the events,that obscured large portions of the EEG. However no clear epileptiform discharges or electrographic ictal activity is captured prior to onset of events or once movement resolves. Additionally no clear focal slowing is observed once the events stop beside the patient's typical baseline left frontal slowing. The patient's heart rate increases to approximately 120 beats per minute during the events.
FINDINGS:
1. At least 3 typical events without clear electrographic ictal correlate.
2. Occasional mild left frontal slowing most appreciable during sleep.
3. Left frontal breach.
IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal 18-hour continuous audio video EEG monitoring due to occasional mild left frontal slowing and 3 typical episodes of head shaking, left arm posturing, decreased responsiveness, back arching. Mild left frontal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction likely structural in etiology, and, in this patient, is consistent with a history of prior left frontal meningioma resection. Breach artifact can be seen in a setting of a skull defect. None of the events captured had abnormal ictal correlate seen on the scalp EEG. These findings were conveyed to the primary Neurology team.



