DIAGNOSIS:  Classification of seizure diagnosis, epileptiform versus nonepileptiform seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 53-year-old woman with history of epilepsy since age of 11.  She states that she has 2 types of seizures.  The 1st semiology of seizure starts with an aura of ear buzzing and ear fullness and at times, she has automatism on the right hand, which was described as “searching in the air.” Some seizure episodes were followed by a secondary generalized tonic-clonic seizure.
MEDICATIONS:  The patient was on Topamax 25 mg twice a day and Klonopin 1 mg 3 times a day prior to admission to EMU unit.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the EMU using the standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  An automated seizure and spike detection system and a patient activated alarm system were used.  Records were reviewed daily of EEG abnormalities and clinical events.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Interictal EEG:  From 07/02/2013 to 07/03/2013; the interictal posterior dominant rhythm consisted of 9-10 Hz activity that was moderate amount of diffuse beta activity.  Stage I sleep was characterized by disappearance of the posterior dominant rhythm and the presence of vertex waves.  Stage II sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes and a sleep and slow waves of stage III were also observed. Hyperventilation was performed at 9:20 A.M. by physician, which led to symmetric slowing of background. Photic stimulation was performed at 10:21 A.M. and was followed by no abnormal response or clinical seizures. (Heart rate was between 60-90 per minute and was regular.)
Clinical events: All her clinical events happened during wakefulness.
On 07/03/2013, the patient was sitting at the edge of the bed at 7:40 a.m., was being examined by physician, she reported feeling numbness and tingling in both her hands, she stated that this is one of her typical seizures episodes.  This lasted 2-3 minutes.  At 7:45:21, the patient said she does not feel numbness or tingling any more.  During this episode, the patient was awake and able to answer all questions correctly. The EEG showed an awake pattern with no ictal EEG correlation.
On 07/03/2013 at 6 a.m., the patient was lying in bed. The patient was drowsy.  Then, she woke up.  There was no jerking noted, the patient pushed the alarm button at 6:13 a.m.  EEG showed awake state with no epileptic changes.  The nurse came into the room and checked the blood pressure.
IMPRESSION:  The video EEG monitoring study was normal and did not show electrographic changes consistent with the clinical events.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The interictal EEG does not support the diagnosis of epilepsy.  The episodes are diagnostic for psychogenic nonepileptic seizures.  A simple partial seizure cannot be ruled out by this recording, although complex partial, generalized tonic clonic, and myoclonic seizures can be ruled out.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  We did not capture all the typical seizure types including the generalized tonic-clonic seizures and further long-term monitoring admissions are recommended for capturing the rest of the events.



