REASON FOR STUDY:  Refractory epilepsy.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 21-year-old woman with history of seizures since age 11, with episodes occurring from sleep, where she wakes with a bitten tongue and tired, and also daily episodes occurring during the day, where she hears a buzzing sound, passes out, has generalized tonic-clonic shaking, confusion and incontinence.  Last seizure was on June 21, admitted here for differential and classification of rectory seizures.  She recently found out she is pregnant.
MEDICATIONS:  Included Keppra, which she stopped 2 weeks ago.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with an additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9-10 Hz, which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures include hyperventilation and photic stimulation and produced no abnormal discharges.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal slow waves seen independently at F7/T3, much more frequently at F8/T4.  At times they have a field that is in both the bilateral frontal and central regions and occur frequently in wakefulness.
Bursts of generalized theta and delta slow occurring during wakefulness, possibly related to drowsiness.
Heart rate:  78.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal electroencephalogram due to bilateral anterior temporal and frontocentral slowing in relationship to bursts of generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction as well as focal cerebral dysfunction in the bilateral temporal regions, both of which are nonspecific in regards to etiology.  No seizures or clear epileptiform discharges are seen.  Please not this EEG recorded limited sleep and further recording with capturing deeper stages of sleep would be helpful.



