History:	29 YR WOMAN WITH CHANGE IN EVENTS. PT NOW WITH EVENTS THAT SHE
TALKS INCOHERENTLY, BUT NOT AWARE HAPPENS 1-2 DAY. PRIOR EEGS.
Medications:	NONE
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep, hyperventilation, photic
Description:
During maximal wakefulness, the background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm,
which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present,
maximal over bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta
activity and becomes more disorganized, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes
intermittent.  Vertex waves appear that are at times asymmetric, and frequent generalized bursts of
high amplitude theta and delta activity are seen.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to
moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left temporal and rarely in the right
temporal regions during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Predominately during
drowsiness, polymorphic high amplitude left temporal sharp waves appear with variable fields with
phase reversal at F7, T3, T5 and at times develop into a pseudoperiodic pattern.  Rare right
temporal sharp waves are also present with phase reversal F8 and T4.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with good cooperation, and produces no effect.
Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional
abnormalities.  HR is 66.
Summary of Findings:
Sharp waves, frequent, bilateral (L>R) temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal
Focal slowing, polymorphic, rare, right temporal
Disorganization, intermittent, bilateral (L>R) hemispheric
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of frequent epileptiform discharges
over the left temporal region and rarely over the right temporal region.  These findings are
indicative of a potentially epileptogenic foci in these regions.In addition there is  intermittent focal
slowing in the left temporal region and rarely in the right temporal region.  These findings are
indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.  No clinical or
electrographic seizures are present.  In the setting of multiple prior EEG without clear epileptiform
features, this record now supports a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy, and clinical and neuroimaging correlation is recommended.



