CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 23-year-old woman with bipolar disease, limited education, 5 weeks postpartum.  Mother reports abrupt onset of head bobbing, arm shaking, and episodes with loss of consciousness for the past 48 hours.
MEDICATIONS:  None.
INTRODUCTION:  A 30-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient had limited communication skills and a translator was used during the EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As the tracing begins, the patient is awake with a 12 hertz alpha rhythm generous, low voltage, frontal central beta.
In wakefulness and early drowsiness, brief bursts of high amplitude, generalized spike and wave activity were noted.  Some of these seem to begin with a burst of fast activity in the occipital regions with a 3-5 Hz spike and wave complex.  The complexes vary in the frequency, many of them are 3 hertz with a polyspike, but the later spikes in the complex are always consistently slower.  Generally, these are frontally predominant spike and wave complexes and those that occur out of drowsiness do not have this beta buzz prior to the spikes.  The patient is noted to have a subtle head bob and sometimes some movement of her legs during the bursts.  She seems to have clinical symptoms with bursts that are 2 seconds in duration.  The bursts are present in wakefulness and early drowsiness.  Hyperventilation may have increase the duration of the spike and wave and polyspike and wave complexes.  In addition, during hyperventilation, there may be a little bit more fast activity.  The patient was otherwise able to answer questions, before and after the discharges.
Photic stimulation elicited a driving response.  Spike and wave activity was noted with a 21 hertz discharge, but was not prolonged relative to other sections of the record.
Heart rate 72 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to generalized spike and wave activity with bursts of 3-5 Hz frontally predominant spike and wave activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The EEG pattern described above is most compatible with generalized mechanism for epilepsy.  The patient's behavior of the head bobbing and sometimes the leg movements are not outside of normal for a absence seizure.



