CLINICAL HISTORY:  76-year-old woman with multiple neurological issues, encephalopathy, VRE and tremor.
MEDICATIONS:  oxcarbazepine, benzodiazepines, and Trileptal.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside in the EEG monitoring unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  During this section of the record, the patient's medications were adjusted.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
May 18, 2015- May 19, 2015
The background EEG demonstrates a diffusely slow pattern with theta.  The patient demonstrates 4 Hz tremor artifact noted, particularly on the right.  With examination, the patient demonstrates titubation of the head and tremor of the upper extremities. Of note, when the patient's movement artifact drops out, there does appear to be an asymmetry with a bit more arrhythmic slowing on the left compared to the right.
Wakefulness includes a diffusely slow theta pattern.  As the recording continues, there is a glimpse of a 7-8 Hz alpha rhythm.  Very little sleep is noted and the patient seems to be frequently awake, moving about throughout the 24-hour record.
Heart rate:  Irregular 90 bpm.
May 19, 2015 This section of the record includes 7 hours of EEG monitoring.
Background EEG: The patient is again awake.  Prominent 4-5 Hz tremor artifact is noted again, more prominently on the right.  The patient remains quite confused.  There is waxing and waning, and at times, there is more alpha frequency activity noted in the background.  There is also an asymmetry with at times a bit more slowing on the left.
Heart rate:  Irregular 100 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This continuous EEG monitoring session is remarkable for,
Slow and disorganized background.
When the muscle artifact drops out, there seems to be a bit more slowing in the left hemisphere.
This patient does not appear to have ever slept in the sections of the EEG recorded and is awake nearly the entire time.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No clinical seizures were noted.  This is a very challenging EEG, with muscle twitch artifact, but no epileptiform wound or clinical seizures were identified.
\



