CLINICAL HISTORY: 46 year old female, with previous traumatic brain injury, gunshot wound
to the right frontal region, right hemiparesis and aphagia. Dementia. Seizures were recorded on April 2010. This patient also a medical record of 27511476.

MEDICATIONS: Lamictal, baclofen, Keppra, dilantin, and Ultram.

INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of
electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG demonstrates an intrahemispheric
asymmetry. There is a glimpse of an alpha rhythm discernible on the right with alpha and theta frequency activity identified on the right compared to the left. Activity from the left hemisphere is lower voltage, slower, more featureless with sharply contoured delta at T1 and F7. The asymmetry is particularly remarkable in relaxed wakefulness and there is even a suggestion of a MU on the right, but lower voltage slower activity on the left. Of note, the technologist notes that the patient has a right frontal craniotomy. In relaxed wakefulness there is also some sharply contoured activity in the right frontal temporal region. Focal well defined sharp waves are observed at T3/F7. As the recording continues in relaxed wakefulness, occasional left anterior temporal sharp waves are observed. In addition, there are rare sharp waves identified independently from the right frontal temporal region. Features of drowsiness include an increase in beta, as well as a slight accentuation of the left anterior temporal sharp waves. Photic stimulation elicits scant driving on the right.

IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Intra hemispheric asymmetry with relative attenuation of faster frequency activity from the left hemisphere.
2. Left anterior temporal sharp waves.
3. Occasional sharp waves from the right temporal region.
4. Modest background slowing from the right.

CLINICAL CORRELATION: These findings are quite similar to the previous study performed in
2007. They support a bihemispheric process affecting the left hemisphere, much more
significantly than the right. The majority of the epileptiform activity was on the left.



