History:	38 YR OLD MALE FOUND DOWN AT HM, TRANSFER FROM JEANS. EEG TO R/O SZ. PT HAS FRONTAL B/L CRANI
Medications:	Keppra and Dilantin Sedation:


EEG Type: Technique:


Routine, awake & drowsy
International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, comatose



Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 23 hours from 10/25/2014 to 10/26/2014.  Nursing? initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.  All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	O
Description of pushbutton events


Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present. Background activity was diffusely almost completely attenuated with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture was present.

No focal slowing is present. Periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) are present in the F4 region at a rate of 1-5 seconds.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.

Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed. There was no reactivity to auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli. HR was 96

Summary of Findings:
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), frequent,  right frontal Attenuation,  continuous diffuse

Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 23 hr EEG because of continuous periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs) in the right frontal region. These findings are indicative of a highly potentially epileptogenic acute focal destructive lesion in the region. No electrographic seizures are present. In addition there is diffuse background attenuation and absent alpha rhythm. These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction. No clinical or:	electrographic seizures are present.


