History:	49 year old female undergoing therapeutic hypothermia protocol.
Medications:	Midazolam
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes,
obtunded, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
This EEG captures the patient following the warming phase. No posterior dominant rhythm was
present. The is profound attenuation and suppression of the background cerebral activity.  There is
excessive bilateral muscle artifact seen.  No normal sleep architecture was present.
No focal slowing is present.  As the record opens at 1PM, there are frequent generalized periodic
discharges (GPEDs) of low amplitude (0.25-1Hz). These are electrographic only.  However, by
approximately 2:30PM, there is the appearance of clinical myoclonus associated with the
generalized periodic discharges.  The frequency of the PEDs and myoclonus increases throughout
the day until it occurs nearly every 1-2 seconds.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  There was no reactivity to auditory,
tactile, or painful stimuli.  There is frequent clinical myoclonus seen.
Summary of Findings:
PEDs (periodic epileptiform discharges), continuous, bilateral
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG because of generalized periodic discharges, complete
suppression of all normal background activity, and the appearance of clinical myoclonus.  These
findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  These
clinical events suggest a diagnosis of post-hypoxic myoclonic status epilepticus.  These findings
were conveyed to the primary team.



