TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG during wakefulness and drowsiness.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 33-year-old ambidextrous patient presented with history of 3 witnessed seizures, described as generalized tonic-clonic convulsions.  Patient on the day of admission had noted 2 generalized tonic-clonic shaking and he reports that he had similar episodes 6 months ago.
MEDICATIONS:
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the lab using the standard international 10/20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed with tracing captures wakefulness and drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 7 to 7.5 Hz in frequency and 30-50 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening. There is 6-7 Hz diffuse state activity seen during wakefulness which is distributed symmetrically.  There is an excessive amount of low
amplitude diffuse theta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by slowing of background and absence of mostly an eye blink artifact. Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and did result in driving response.  Heart rate was 100-110 and patient was febrile, evidenced by several sweating artifacts during this recording.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to diffuse slowing of background with excess theta activity during wakefulness and slowing of posterior dominance rhythm.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to metabolic toxic hypoxic or infectious cephalopathy, alternatively it could be due to effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction, degenerative brain disease although it may occur in postictal state.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record and no seizures were captured, this does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or
intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a  repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or continuous bedside EEG monitoring maybe helpful.



