CLINICAL HISTORY:  19 year old right handed male with epilepsy
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient had a seizure during the EEG and removed all of the electrodes which were difficult to replace in the immediate postictal period.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness there is a 9.5 Hz, 50 mV posterior dominant rhythm. Brief drowsiness is characterized by the appearance of background theta.  In the initial sections of the EEG the patient demonstrates bursts of high amplitude frontally predominant 3-6 Hz spike and wave activity of 1 to 3 seconds duration.  When testing can be performed during the bursts, initially the patient is able to repeat after a 3 second burst, but in later sections during hyperventilation with a 5 second burst he does not recall a code word.  The bursts are high amplitude symmetric spike and wave complexes with an after going slow wave.  Hyperventilation was stopped at 3:34:27, 168 seconds into the initiation, simply because the patient stopped hyperventilating and then he was reminded to hyperventilate again at 3:34:35.  During hyperventilation there was clear accentuation of spike and wave activity.  In addition, after a burst of spike and wave activity, there was rhythmic 4-5 Hz activity which was a bit more prominent on the right compared to the left.  This was followed again by a generalized spike and wave discharge.  Brief spike and wave discharges were not associated with impairment of awareness, but those that were 3 to 5 seconds in duration were associated with impairment of duration.
Hyperventilation was initiated at 3:31:43 which clearly accentuated the generalized spike and wave activity.  Increasing bursts of spike and wave activity were observed with increasing duration.
SEIZURE:  3:32:03  the patient demonstrates increasing bursts of spike and wave activity.  At 3:32:47 he is unable to repeat a phrase.  The EEG returns to normal after 5 seconds.
At 3:33:51 the patient demonstrates a brief spike and wave discharge.
At 3:35:14 there is a spike and wave discharge which ends with background theta and then a second at 3:35:24, but after that discharge there seems to be more rhythmic theta out of the right hemisphere for a few seconds, then a spike and wave discharge, and then a subtle asymmetry with the appearance of more theta out of the right hemisphere compared to the left.  The patient is behaviorally motionless, but he has stopped hyperventilating and appears to be poorly responsive, although no involuntary movements are noted.  For 20 seconds, the patient demonstrates no positive motor activity, but high amplitude, spike and wave activity is noted in a background with prominent disruption of faster frequency activity and prominent, background delta.
The EEG transforms at 03:36:02 with the appearance of 9-16 Hz fast activity.  Behaviorally the patient transitions to a tonoclonic seizure with extension of both hands and then tonic and then clonic activity.  His head turns to the left initially and then as his activity switches to more of a clonic component he moves over to the left and nearly falls out of the chair.  As he does so, his EEG electrodes become loose.  The last seconds of the EEG demonstrated a pattern of fast activity both 9 Hz activity and some beta.
The clonic activity is seen at 03:36:13 and the seizure is over at 03:37:00 for a seizure that was approximately 1.5 minutes.  The patient demonstrated prolonged postictal changes.
HR:    60 to 90 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is diagnostic of epilepsy with what appeared to be a generalized seizure and generalized spike and wave activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The majority of the features noted in this EEG is suggesting generalized mechanism for epilepsy.  Of note, as the EEG transitioned from interictal phenomenon with spike and wave activity to the clinical seizure with motion arrest, there was some focality with rhythmic theta observed out of the right hemisphere.  This may suggest more than one contributed to the pathogenesis of this patient's epilepsy.



