History:	77 YR FEMALE   SHAKING L U&LE. FACE TWISTED AND X2 MIN, EYE GAZE
LEFT. CT. OLD R MCA CVA, LEFT MCA CVA NEW.  PT SEDATED IN ER.
Medications:	DILANTIN, PROPOFOL DRIP
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 29 hours from 03/05/2015 to 03/06/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by an almost
attenuated delta activity over the left hemisphere. The right hemisphere there is diffuse low voltage
delta more than theta activity. The amplitude in the right hemisphere improves over time.  with the
absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep
As the EEG progresses there is more clear continuous polymorphic delta activity is present in the
right mid to posterior quadrant region during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  Frequent
focal sharp waves are present with phase reversal and amplitude maximum at P4. During the last
hours of the record these appear at times to become pseudo-rhythmic at 1 Hz.  No seizures were
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  HR was 60
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous diffuse
Attenuation, continuous, left hemispheric
Sharp waves, frequent, right parietal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL  hours EEG because of left hemisphere attenuation.  This findings is
suggestive of cortical structural dysfunction and consistent with the history of a large stroke over this
region. In addition there is  right parietal sharp waves and focal slowing this are indicative of focal
cerebral dysfunction and irritability. They may be potentially epileptogenic. Lastly,  diffuse
background slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific
indicators of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction.
architecture was present.captured.






