CLINICAL HISTORY:  65 year old man with a past medical history of alcohol abuse who presented about a month ago with new onset seizures, now was found to have new onset facial twitching and decreased mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Dilantin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Nonconvulsive status epilepticus.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long-term monitoring EEG was performed using the 10-20 electrode placement system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and EKG.  A spike detector and seizure detector program was activated and used for review.  Also, nursing notes, medical staff notes, and alarms were used for review, as well.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm.  Occasional diffuse brief discontinuities are observed.  The background consists of a mixture of low to moderate amplitude fast activity mixed with polymorphic theta activity.  Fast activity is more prominent anteriorly.  There is no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Continuous at 1 Hz epileptiform discharges are captured throughout the recording.  They are broad-based, generalized, most prominent over the left hemisphere and bilateral occipital electrodes.  With stimulation, frequency of these discharges, especially occipital discharges, increases to about 2 Hz.  This may represent an example of SIRPIDS include rhythmic, periodic epileptiform discharge.  As the recording progresses, amplitude of these epileptiform discharges decreases and they become less prominent over the right hemisphere.  No frank electrographic seizures are noted.  No normal sleep architecture is present despite prolonged periods of sleep.  Normal sinus rhythm is observed in the single EKG electrode.
FINDINGS:
Occasional discontinuities.
Moderate diffuse slowing.
Generalized periodic discharges, more prominent over the left hemisphere and occipitally.
Stimulus-induced rhythmic, periodic, or ictal discharges. (SIRPIDS)
No seizures.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a very abnormal 24-hour video continuous EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing with periods of discontinuity and continuous generalized epileptiform discharges that are more prominent over the left hemisphere and bilateral occipital regions.  Diffuse slowing indicates nonspecific cerebral dysfunction that in this case may be partially related to medication effect.  Generalized discharges indicate increased cortical excitability and an increased risk for seizures, especially over the left hemisphere and bilateral occipital regions.  Clinical correlation with brain imaging is suggested.  No electrographic seizures are captured.  When compared to the EEG from 08/13/2012 to 08/14/2012, there has been overall improvement in appearance of epileptiform discharges over the right hemisphere and decrease in their amplitude.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



