CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 64-year-old woman with previous evaluation for nonepileptic seizures, depression, and anxiety.

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient had multiple behavioral events for which she was able to push the button.  In the overnight recording, she had some problems with electrode artifact.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized with 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm and a small amounts of low voltage, frontocentral beta.  Sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS.

Epileptiform detections:  None.

Electrographic seizures:  None.

Events:  Multiple practice push button were noted.  In addition, behavioral events were noted at 9:56 a.m., 12:39 p.m., 3:20 p.m., 8:45 a.m., and another on the morning of the 30th at 9:09.  Although, there was electrode artifact for the events on the evening of the 29th and the morning of the 30th, no epileptiform activity was noted for any of these events and all were associated with an otherwise normal EEG, despite some movement artifact.

Seizure semiology for 9:56 a.m. nodding and blinking. Similar behavioral changes were noted at 12:39 p.m. and at 3:20 p.m.  The seizure at 8:45 begins with nodding and blinking, and then jiggling from side to side.  The patient is with the nurse at the bedside.  The nurse is examining the patient who is responsive to the nurses intervention, although she is not speaking and does not appear to have recalled the event.

The event at 9:09 on the morning of the 30th was characterized by amnesia. The patient stated that she did not recall the physician, had not seen her before, although she was otherwise able to lie down new memories and asked appropriate questions.

Heart rate 72 bpm.

IMPRESSION:  This 4-day continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
1. No epileptiform discharges of any nature.
2. An otherwise normal background.
3. Multiple different behavioral spells, sometimes with staring, sometimes with psychomotor slowing, sometimes with nodding and blinking, but never with epileptiform activity, despite the clear change in patient's sensorium.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings are congruent with the previous EEG monitoring, which did not identify an epileptiform characteristic to this patient's events.



