CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 70-year-old woman, admitted to the hospital on April 10, 2015.  Multiple metastases to brain/dura/scalp admitted with unresponsiveness and seizure characterized by eyes looking left, tongue biting, and foaming at the mouth.  Prolonged status epilepticus on the morning of the 10th.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, phenytoin, vancomycin, piperacillin, phenytoin, warfarin, methimazole, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.  The patient was intubated and poorly responsive throughout the monitoring session.
April 10th to April 11th:
This section of the EEG begins after the patient has been treated for status epilepticus and was intubated and unresponsive.  The first 24 hours of the record demonstrate diffusely slow pattern with mixed theta delta and occasional arousals with muscle artifact  Some sections of the record demonstrate a bit more arrhythmic theta than the others.
There is a bit more theta noted on the morning of April 11, 2015.
Electrographic seizures:  None.
Clinical events:  None.
Epileptiform Detections:  None significant.
April 11, 2015 to April 12, 2015:
Medications, norepinephrine, vancomycin, piperacillin, phenytoin, warfarin, methimazole, Ativan, and others.
Introduction:  EEG monitoring continues.  No clinical seizures were noted.
Background:  The background demonstrates a diffusely slow pattern with more of a pattern of theta and delta.  Occasional spontaneous arousals were noted.
On the 12th, there were some sections of the record noted with more rhythmic, higher amplitude delta.
There are also some triphasic waves noted.
Seizures:  None.
Epileptiform Detections:  There are some subtly defined midline vertex sharp waves noted.  These differ from normal sleep morphologies.  They do not evolve, but during some sections of the record, they are somewhat more prominent than others.
Heart rate: irregular, 60 to 90 bpm.
April 12, 2015 to April 13, 2015:  During this section of the record, no clinical seizures were noted.  The patient remained intubated and unresponsive.
Medications, norepinephrine, vancomycin, piperacillin, phenytoin, warfarin, methimazole,
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG continued to demonstrate a markedly slow pattern.  Intermittent rhythmic delta activity was noted as were triphasic waves.  Occasional spontaneous arousals were noted.
Electrographic seizures:  None.
Interictal sharp waves or spikes:  Vertex sharp waves can be identified using various montages.  There is a higher amplitude sharp wave  maximum at FZ.  In some sections of the record, it is more prominent than others.
Heart rate:  irregular, 70 to 90 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This 72-hour continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for,
Markedly slow background with intermittent arousals.
Absence of normal waveforms, awake and asleep.
An emerging F7 sharp wave noted, which was monitored for an extended period of time, which did not evolve into clinical or electrographic seizures.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  These findings were discussed with the clinical team.  The emerging sharp wave noted at FZ is thought to correlate with a metastasis in that same region in this individual with multiple cerebral metastases.  No electrographic or clinical seizures were recorded throughout the patient's prolonged recording.
__________________________





