CLINICAL HISTORY: 78 year old right handed female with carotid stenosis.
MEDICATIONS: Fentanyl, Propofol, Buspar
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. Recording begins with the patient awake in the OR and concludes after patency is confirmed by Doppler. This is a 2 hour EEG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing begins, the patient is awake in the OR with alpha rhythm and prominent lambda. Anesthesia is administered at 11:23. Beta frequency activity is noted at 11 :32. At 11:33, there are bursts of rhythmic slowing, but the patient is still awake. There are no notes from the technologist to indicate that this carotid was done under
local. The EEG demonstrates a relatively lightly sedated pattern with a mixed frequency background. The EEG recording continues through impedance checks and through Bovie. By 12:07, the patient clearly has an anesthetic pattern with a mixed frequency pattern which intermittently attenuates. At 12:12, the technologist informs the OR team that the patient has a burst suppression pattern with periods of suppression of 5 seconds although the EEG has been attenuated for some time before then. At 12:00, there is intermittent attenuation which is more remarkable on the right compared to the left.
Heparin is given at 12:18:13. The EEG remains discontinuous as the clamp is placed at 12:24. The first clamp is at 12:24:05. It is discontinuance and a little slower on the right prior to placement of the clamp. No additional changes are noted with recurrent placement of the clamp with clamp and unclamp through 13:08:26. Patency is confirmed by Doppler at 13:20:05.
60bpm
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: EEG monitoring during this right carotid
endarterectomy was remarkable for discontinuous pattern after utilization of anesthesia which was a bit more remarkable on the right. No additional focal features were noted with placement of the clamp over the carotid.



