REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 50-year-old woman with a history of seizures on August 25, 2013, generalized tonic-clonic with postictal confusion.  EEG for classification.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  T5 electrode artifact and movement artifact throughout the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz, which is reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontal central beta.  Overall the background of the EEG has a slight excessive theta, even in wakefulness.  Photic stimulation and hyperventilation revealed some abnormalities which are not likely due to the stimulation but occur during the stimulation and will be discussed in "abnormal discharges."
Abnormal discharges:
Generalized spike and waves seen maximally in the anterior electrodes at a frequency of 3 Hz occurring for up to 24 seconds with no clear clinical correlate.  Please note that the tech did not test the patient during the bursts.  They appeared to be symmetrically equal on the right and the left.
Excessive theta in wakefulness at 5 to 7 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts.
T3 focal slowing seen intermittently at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 40 microvolts.
Please note that the generalized spike and wave bursts were also seen during photic stimulation and hyperventilation, but did not appear to be due to reactiveness of the actual activating procedure.
Heart rate 90.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to generalized spike and wave at 3 Hz, in addition to mild generalized slowing and left midtemporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy.  In addition, there is evidence of mild to moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  Lastly, there is some evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  No clear seizures were seen.



