LENGTH OF RECORDING:  22 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 52-year-old man with past medical history of traumatic brain injury and seizures, also subarachnoid hemorrhoid, status post craniotomy on the right.  The patient is now with an episode of blacking out.
MEDICATIONS:  Percocet, Keppra, Neurontin, Topamax.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20  system with additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.   Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well formed and modulated moderate amplitude 9 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  Intermittent brief drowsiness is captured and is characterized by increase in the amount of diffuse theta activity. Intermittent polymorphic theta activity is captured over the right frontal temporal central region.  Additional faster frequencies are captured over the right frontal central region.
Hyperventilation was not performed.
Step photic stimulation results in symmetrical occipital driving at multiple flash frequencies.
A regular rate is noted on the single EKG lead.
FINDINGS:
Intermittent mild right frontal temporal central slowing.
No stage 2 sleep.
No epileptiform discharges.
Breach over the right frontal central region.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and intermittently drowsy EEG due to intermittent mild right frontal temporal central slowing.  This finding indicates etiologically nonspecific focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and is consistent with patient's history of right craniotomy.  Breach artifact indicates skull defect in that region.  No epileptiform discharges were captured, however, stage 2 sleep was not recorded.  If clinical indications for seizures persists, a repeat study with sleep may be of benefit.



