
CLINICAL HISTORY: 91 year old woman status post right craniotomy for subdural
hematoma, postoperative day 2. The patient had an event with right twitching first
involving the foot, then the hand and then the face.
MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Dilantin, Codeine, Acetaminophen, Pantoprazole,
Chlorhexidine, Zocor, Clonidine, tetanus, Zofran
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20
system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is in a hard collar
and is ventilated. Hyperventilation and photic simulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing beings, the patient is relatively
somnolent in the ICU. The background EEG includes an intrahemispheric asymmetry.
There is 8 Hz activity identified bilaterally but more so on the left than the right. There is
an amplitude asymmetry and an intermittent slow delta in the right hemisphere with
variable maximum including posterior quadrant or frontotemporal. There are occasional
sharp waves particularly in the right frontal region. There is a seizure observed at 3:41,
characterized by rhythmic repetitive twitching of the right hand and associated with an
increase in sharp waves particularly from the right frontal region. Stimulation of the
patient or testing of the patient is not performed during the event but it stops on its own
and at 3:42:59, the nurse prepares to give the patient a bath. After the twitching as
stopped, the EEG is remarkable for dramatic decrease in the epileptiform activity
previously seen on the right. Additional bursts recur at 3:46. Unfortunately at that point,
the patient is not positioned so it is hard to see if the right hand is twitching. Another, ,
burst recurs at 3:48. The EEG ends at that time.
HR: 66 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
I. Moderate bilateral background slowly.
2. Superimposed arrhythmic delta in the right hemisphere.
3. Right frontal sharp waves as well as some sharp waves throughout the right
hemisphere.
4. At least one definitive electrographic seizure with right hand twitching associated
with right frontal sharp waves.

