CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 40-year-old woman with a history of narcolepsy and PTSD/anxiety/abuse victim.  The patient was evaluated in the emergency room for episodes of facial twitching, legs shaking, and loss of consciousness refractory to multiple different medication and previously diagnosed with nonepileptic seizures.  Narcolepsy, cataplexy, anxiety, depression, Cancer, GERD.
MEDICATIONS:  Provigil, Xyrem, and zonisamide. Many others
INTRODUCTION:  Forty-minute digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel EKG.Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed. Prior to the EEG, the patient reported that she felt that she was having the beginning of her seizure.  She was experiencing numbness of the left side of the face and during the EEG, she had facial twitching with unresponsiveness.  She had multiple episodes of her typical symptoms during the EEG, but was ultimately responsive to the technologist.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm with a small amount of low voltage and frontocentral beta.  Drowsiness was characterized by slow rolling eye movements.  In this 40-minute EEG, sleep was not sustained.  Hyperventilation produces an increase in amplitude of the background.  Photic stimulation was performed while the patient was drifting after sleep and there was minimal driving. The patient had two spells with facial twitching, and on going feelings as if she  might have a seizure. She also became briefly unable to respond, but EEG at that time showed normal wake pattern.
Heart rate: 75 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  Normal 40-minute EEG in wakefulness and brief sleep.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No focal or epileptiform features were noted in this record.  This patient had multiple spells during the EEG without a clinical correlate and the patient herself is able to state that these are typical symptoms.  Thus, the EEG today with unresponsiveness with a normal awake pattern is more compatible with a nonepileptic seizure disorder.  Of note, for this individual with a history of severe narcolepsy with cataplexy, she did not appear to be hypersomnolent.






