History:	89 year old man who remains altered after an episode of bradycardia and loss of
consciousness s/p cardiac arrest.
Medications:	Mucomyst/ Albuterol, Insulin, Aztreonam
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from01/08/2014 to 01/09/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG
was available at the bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low-to-
moderate voltage polymorphic delta and theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to
posterior gradient of frequencies.  Over time the background becomes more severely attenuated to
almost completely suppressed between triphasic discharges.  Diffuse, frontally maximal sharp waves
with triphasic morphology at 1Hz are present throughout the recording.  These waveforms
demonstrate an anterior to posterior phase lag and become more prominent with stimulation.  No
normal sleep architecture is present.
Paucity of faster frequencies and lower voltages are noted diffusely.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  An irregular heart rate is noted on a
single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Attenuation
Triphasic waves
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 21-minute EEG because of sever diffuse background slowing and
attenuation with continuous triphasic waveforms.  These findings are indicative of a moderate to
severe diffuse encephalopathy, which is etiologically nonspecific, but suggestive of a metabolic
origin.  Triphasics waveforms are also seen in various types of encephalopathy.  No electrographic
seizures are present.  An irregular heart rate is noted on a single EKG lead.

