History:	42 YO FEMALE .PT WAS INITIALLY INCARCERATED FOR HEROIN/XANAX OD.
AFTER WHICH SHE APPEARED VERY ILL AND SICK LIKE INFECTED??
Medications:	Keppra
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 17 hours from 12/28/2014 to 12/29/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns. All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 10Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Diffuse, frontally predominant 5-10uV, 18-25Hz activity is also seen.
During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more
prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the
record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left anterior temporal region during
wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR 66
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left temporal, anterior
Excessive fast
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of intermittent focal slowing in the
left anterior temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific.  Excessive beta activity could be secondary to the medication effect,
such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates.





