CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 38-year-old gentleman with left craniectomy due to gunshot.  He returned from operating room this morning with seizure activity, treated with Ativan.  There is no T1 and T2 electrodes due to skull defect.
MEDICATIONS:  Fentanyl, midazolam, morphine, Ativan, Keppra, and Zofran.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  There is no T1 and T2 electrodes due to his skull defect.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  In the sedated state, there is diffuse slowing of the background consisting of delta activity, 2-3 Hz frequency, most pronounced on the left side.  There is intermittent alpha activity with a frequency of 8-9 Hz, lasting for 1-2 seconds, most pronounced in frontotemporal region.  There is hemispheric asymmetry characterized by higher amplitude in left hemispheric regions, most pronounced in the frontotemporal areas.  There is slowing of the background activity in delta range with a frequency of 2-3 Hz almost continuously.  There is spontaneous variability seen with increase in background frequency.  There is also reactivity to stimulation.  There is no epileptiform activity or clinical seizures noted during this recording.  Heart rate was 100 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background activity in delta and theta range intermixed with intermittent alpha activity.
Focal slowing and breach in left cerebral hemisphere, most pronounced in frontotemporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of metabolic, toxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy or due to the effect of sedating medications.  Left focal slowing is indicative of focal structural dysfunction in the left cerebral hemisphere, most pronounced in frontotemporal region.  Breach rhythm is consistent with a history of left craniectomy.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.



