History:	An unknown male who presented with a TBI. Found to have left SDH status post evacuation. Prior EEG showed left hemispheres seizures.
Medications:	KEPPRA, MORPHINE, DILANTIN
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG electrodes, obtunded

Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 20 hours from 07/09/2014 to 07/10/2014.  Nursing- initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.  All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events


Description:
There is no PDR and no AP gradient. The background consists of a mixture of attenuated polymorphic delta>> theta activity with increase in theta activity with stimulation. Low amplitude sleep spindle-like waveforms are noted. They are slightly more prominent over the right.

Frequent brief bursts of higher amplitude polymorphic sharply contoured delta activity are present over the left, maximal over temporocentral regions.

Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed. There is reactivity to visual, auditory, tactile, or noxious stimuli. A single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate up to 120 bpm. The A1 and A2 electrodes were lost after 16 hours.

Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, left frontal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate diffuse

Interpretation:
This is an is an abnormal 20 hours LTM EEG due to moderate-to-severe diffuse slowing, voltage attenuation and frequent focal left hemispheric slowing that is most pronounced over the left temporocentral region. Diffuse slowing is etiologically nonspecific indicator of moderate to severe diffuse cerebral dysfunction. Focal left hemispheric slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology and is consistent with a history of focal subdural hematoma status post evacuation. No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.

