CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 53-year-old gentleman, who had 2 witnessed generalized tonic-clonic seizures on 06/21/2013.  Patient has no recollection for the event.  He has a history of left temporal parietal craniotomy in 2004 with a skull defect.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm was 10-11 Hz in frequency, 20-40 microvolts in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontal central beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage I sleep is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves and posts.  A stage II sleep is characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles.  There is breach rhythm seen at the left anterior and mid temporal region.  There is intermittent polymorphic delta and theta activity seen at the left and mid temporal region.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response.  Hyperventilation results in slowing of the background most pronounced on the left side.  Heart rate was 60 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to 1, intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity seen at the left anterior and mid temporal region. 2, breach rhythm at the left temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The breach rhythm is consistent with patient's history of craniotomy.  Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity seen at the left temporal region is suggestive of an underlying structural abnormality in the subcortical white matter of the left hemisphere.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record. This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG or the 24-hour monitoring may be helpful.



