History:	56 year old who presents with new onset seizures and change in mental status.
Medications:	KEPPRA, 2MG ATIVAN IV PUSH
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 9 hours from 08/12/0214 to 08/13/2014.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.   Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is right-to-left intrahemispheric asymmetry with slower waveforms over the right.  The
background over the left hemisphere consist of low-to-moderate amplitude well formed and
regulated 10 Hz PDR with preserved AP gradient.  The background over the right hemisphere is
attenuated, especially over the lateral leads; PDR is unstable and fragmented at 9-10 Hz with poor
AP gradient.  Additional polymorphic delta activity is present over the right temporal and right
occipital  regions.  During sleep symmetrical vertex waves and sleep spindles are noted.
14 focal ~ 30 seconds - 5 minute long seizures are captured during the first two hours of the record
and then stop.  Four seizures have a clinical correlate with left gaze deviaton, rigth hand nose
wiping and head turning and the rest are subclinical.  During one he is able to talk with his family.
All the seizures appear to be right temporal in onset. Some have a more posterior temporal onset
and some more midtemporal. The posterior ones appears to start with a clear beta pattern and the
more anterior ones have a mid temporal theta onset.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  HR was 66
Summary of Findings:
Status epilepticus
Seizure, right temporal
Interpretation:
This is a very abnormal awake and asleep 9 hours EEG due to partial status epilepticus arising from
the right mid and posterior temporal and occipital lobe which resolved after 2 hours. There is focal
epileptogenic structural abnormality in the right temporooccipital region, likely cortical.



