CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 49-year-old woman with HIV and hepatitis C, previously evaluated at the University of Pennsylvania for PRES.  The patient presents with focal lesion in the right hemisphere with significant cortical enhancement, evaluate for ongoing seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed, Phenytoin, Decadron, VPA, antibiotics, others
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed at bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  During the 2 days of recording described below, the patient was weaned off propofol and then extubated.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
04/06/2015 to 04/07/2015
Background
The EEG is at times a challenging pattern in an agitated patient, but demonstrates a continuous pattern with a high amplitude polyspike discharge in the right posterior quadrant maximum T6 and O2 with generous arrhythmic delta activity and significant disruption of faster frequency activity in the right hemisphere compared to the left.  The left hemisphere demonstrates a bit more faster frequency including alpha and beta frequency activity.  Although, there is no mention of changes in pharmacotherapy, there is a prominent increase in beta activity noted at 6:00 to 7:00 p.m. on the evening of 04/06/2015.  The overnight recording for this individual demonstrates a variable pattern, compatible with sleep and wake state, with some sections with more fast activity than others.  The overall epileptiform activity in the right occipital-temporal region does not change nor does the focal slowing from the right hemisphere with marked disruption of arrhythmic delta activity.
Seizures:  None.
Epileptiform discharges:  High amplitude spike and polyspike activity at T6:O2 with generous field of spread.
04/07/2015 to 04/08/2015:  The patient is intubated during the initial sections of this EEG recording.  Over the course of the EEG, the propofol is discontinued.
Background:  The background EEG demonstrates a continuous pattern with polyspike activity in the right occipital-temporal region.  There is significant arrhythmic delta activity noted on the right.  The left hemisphere demonstrates significant variability with at times more or less beta activity and in general a slow pattern on the left, but at times with glimpses of theta.
Seizures:  None.
Epileptiform activity:  High amplitude polyspike activity at T6:O2 with generous field of spread including P4 –T6 and P4-02.
04/08/2015:
6:40 a.m. to 3:40 p.m., during this section of the record, the patient was extubated.  As the patient was becoming increasingly agitated, small dose of propofol was added.
Background:  The EEG demonstrates a continuous pattern from the left hemisphere, at times with generous theta and alpha frequency activity.  The right hemisphere continues to demonstrate higher amplitude arrhythmic delta activity with clear interhemispheric asymmetry and high amplitude polyspike epileptiform activity from the right hemisphere with some variability including T6, O2, T4, as well as some P4 delta with fast activity.
Seizures:  None.
Epileptiform activity:  Prominent polyspike activity from the right hemisphere with a generous field of spread and some evidence of periodicity at 0.25 to 2.0 hertz.
Heart rate:  Irregular, 90 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This 2 days plus 9 hours of continuous video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Prominent epileptiform activity in the right posterior quadrant.
Marked slowing with arrhythmic delta on the right.
Some degree of significant slowing on the left.
Resolution of the previously described recurrent seizures from the right occipital and posterior temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG continues to support a markedly epileptiform process.  Ongoing clinical vigilance is valuable.  Of note, however, by the final hours of the EEG, the patient is more clearly awake and posterior dominant rhythm is emerging from the left hemisphere, all congruent with an improving clinical state.





