CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 76-year-old woman diagnosed with stiff-man's syndrome and Alzheimer's disease some time ago, episode of shaking in July.
MEDICATIONS:  Atenolol, Aricept, Metformin, Remeron, Zocor, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was sitting up in a wheelchair.  Photic stimulation was completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal and lacks the normal waveforms for an adult of this age.  There are some sections of the record with a relatively rhythmic, lower voltage 6 Hz pattern.  Other sections of the record included a more lower voltage featureless pattern with a posteriorly predominant periodic complex period.  There are a handful of frontal triphasic waves noted.  As the patient becomes drowsy, movement artifact drops out.  The periodic complexes are noted in the background and are asynchronous, at times occurring earlier on the left or right or isolated on the left and not the right.  Additionally, the patient drifts off to sleep falling forward in her chair.  Additional focal sharp waves are noted, right frontal and using an average reference there seems to be a transverse dipole at times, left posterior right frontal.
Photic stimulation does not activate the record.
Heart rate:  64 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to:
Marked background slowing.
Intermittent attenuation of the background.
Triphasic waves.
Unusual sharp waves in this record which include frontal sharp waves and posteriorly predominant periodic complexes which almost have a metabolic appearance.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The findings described above are compatible with a chronic encephalopathy.  The epileptiform activity in this EEG differs from the previous study as do the triphasic waves which have now more of a posterior predominance.
This remains a markedly abnormal EEG.  These abnormalities have been noted in the EEGs dating since 2010.



