History:	61 year old woman with change in mental status.
Medications:	Phenytoin, vancomycin, versed drip, Ativan IVP, Trileptal, baclofen
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~21 hours from 12/24/2013 till 12/25/2013
Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was
reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG
patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real
time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity was characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta >theta activity with absence of the expected anterior to posterior gradient of
frequencies.  Underriding fast activity is captured.  Periods of discontinuity are noted.  As the
recording progresses, periods of discontinuity become more frequent.  This is related to increase in
versed doses.  No normal sleep architecture is present.
There is subtle paucity of faster frequencies over the right hemisphere.  Recurrent stereotyped
clinical episodes are captured.  These are characterized by brief body jerk followed bilateral eye
opening.  These events occur cyclically every 20-40 seconds and last 30-60 seconds.
Electrographically, these episodes are associated with diffuse EMG artifact and diffuse frontally
predominant slow rhythmic delta activity without clear spatial or temporal evolution.  Stereotyped
nature of these events is concerning for seizures.  Events stop once Versed dose is increased.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, right hemispheric, subtle
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate-to-severe
Event, frequent, suspected seizures secondary to stereotyped recurrent nature of the events
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24-hour continuous video EEG because of moderate-to-severe diffuse
background slowing with subtle slowing over the right and stereotyped recurrent events, suspected
to be ictal in etiology.  Diffuse slowing is indicative of moderate to-severe- diffuse cerebral
dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  Focal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction,
possibly structural in etiology.  Events resolve with increase in versed doses.  These findings were
conveyed to the neurology consult team and the primary  team.



