REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 73-year-old woman with seizure in the nursing home, lasting 1 hour, now confused with history of old left hemispheric stroke.

MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin, heparin.

INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using a standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient is recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffuse slow background with no posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  Overall the background is consistent of delta frequency slowing, which is seen maximal over the right hemisphere.  The left hemisphere reveals rhythmic sharp waves and intermittent suppression, which I will discuss, and abnormal discharges.  No activating procedures were performed.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
1. Focal sharp waves seen continuously over the left hemisphere at a frequency in a periodic manner occurring at 1 Hz, maximal at F74/T3, consistent with periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLED's).  In between these PLED's there is suppression of faster frequencies over that hemisphere.
2. Focal slowing seen continuously over the right hemisphere at F84/T4, seen throughout the recording at a frequency of 2-5 Hz and amplitude of 20-50 microvolts.

SEIZURES:  Throughout the recording there are frequent recurrent seizures arising from the right hemisphere, appearing to be maximal at T4, starting with a beta frequency discharge that appears to slow down in frequency, increase in amplitude and spread to the right hemisphere.  It appears to remain mainly over the right hemisphere and slowly subside afterwards, leaving some postictal focal slowing in the right anterior temporal region.  These discharges have no clinical correlate and are consistent with nonconvulsive seizures or electrographic seizures.  They are occurring frequently, multiple times throughout the recording and last from 30 second to 1 minute.

HEART RATE:  108.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal electroencephalogram due to recurring right midtemporal electrographic seizure in relation to left anterior temporal periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals electrographic nonconvulsive status epilepticus arising from the right midtemporal region.  In addition, there is focal cerebral dysfunction in that region, which may signify a structural lesion or focal irritability in that region.  In addition, there is independent focal cerebral dysfunction and irritability over the left anterior temporal region, which may also signify another focus of structural dysfunction and irritability.  These findings were communicated to the primary team.



