CLINICAL HISTORY: 29 year old male, status post cranial assault requiring decompressive craniectomy yesterday and EVD today.  Diffuse contusions.  No bone flap.  Baseline study prior to phenobarbital use.
MEDICATIONS:  Propofol, Fentanyl, Versed, Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient is intubated in a collar with the craniectomy.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The EEG demonstrates a low voltage relatively suppressed pattern.  There is almost a paroxysmal or discontinuous nature to the EEG on particularly from the left hemisphere where there are brief bursts of primarily theta more than delta activity lasting a second or two followed by suppression.  The right hemisphere demonstrates more of a lower voltage suppressed pattern.
Stimulation of the patient does occur and produces some theta artifact.  There is some variability in the record and there are times where either hemisphere demonstrates a somewhat discontinuous pattern.
By 7:30 p.m. electrode artifacts are noted.  Prior to this at 6:24 the EEG seems to be transitioning into more of a burst suppression pattern, but it is not truly a burst suppression pattern, it is more of an electrodecremental response and in fact, although the time at which medications are adjusted is not documented, more beta frequency starts to emerge after 6:30 and then the T1 electrode becomes problematic.  T1 of 73 electrodes are all somewhat of a challenge.  There is a bit more cerebral activity noted at 7:19 particularly from the left hemisphere.
Hr:    90 bpm
IMPRESSION:  This EEG is remarkable for:
A markedly suppressed pattern.
An intermittently discontinuous pattern, apparent even prior to administration of benzodiazepines.
An asymmetry with discontinuous pattern showing up a little differently in each hemisphere.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a severe disturbance of cerebral function.  This patient's medications and trauma may play a role in the pattern described above.  No seizures were recorded.  Additional EEG recording can be helpful to document the transitioning into Pentobarbital coma, but the EEG is already quite suppressed.



