CLINICAL HISTORY:  An elderly woman with previous stroke and complex partial epilepsy.  The patient experienced a complex partial seizure that was more severe than usual, followed by worsening right-sided weakness and confusion.  On the morning of the 6th she was found to have involuntary twitching with epilepsia partialis continua clinically and stimulus-induced jerking of right face, shoulder, arm, and to a lesser extent the right leg.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Dilantin, Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG was undertaken in the long-term monitoring unit with seizure and spike detection.  A push-button alarm was used by the team to identify clinical events.  The team noted that the patient did not have involuntary jerking while asleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
October 6-7
This section of the record demonstrates a slow pattern on the right with generous beta.  Even though the patient is awake and conversant, it is difficult to find an alpha rhythm.  The left hemisphere demonstrates irregular delta with a slow periodicity.  In a bipolar montage, there seems to be a sharper burst of activity in the left occipital region, and with an average reference this seems to be a bit more at P3.
The sleep recording includes more of beta.  The periodic delta in the left hemisphere, particularly in the temporal region persists but in sleep the sharp wave is harder to identify.  In sleep, there is a marked slow wave complex, almost an attenuation noted which is bihemispheric in nature.
The overall pattern of periodic delta on the left is improving in the overnight recording of October 6 to October 7.  When the patient is awakened on the morning the 7th, the periodic delta returns, but unfortunately the awake recording is also remarkable for significant artifact.
October 7-8
This section of the record is remarkable for significant problems with the electrodes.  Clinically, the team notes that the patient has far fewer clinical jerks of the right hand and face but is a bit more confused.  Despite the problems with the EEG electrodes, there is a clear periodic focus in the left central parietal and occipital regions, sometimes almost with an isoelectric component at C3/P3 and then almost a positive delta at P3.  On other occasions, the activity is more C3/P3 initially and then an electronegative slow delta burst.  This discharge may also demonstrate positivity at T3 and negativity at O1.  At 8:00 p.m., there is reasonably good quality recording and the patient appears to have the same periodic activity.  Although there are significant electrode problems, on the morning of the 8th the periodic activity in the left central parietal region persists.
Heart rate 72 bpm.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  The patient continues to have focal jerking of the arm and face while awake.  She also demonstrates aphasia.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness and sleep the patient demonstrates periodic delta from the left hemisphere, particularly central temporal and posterior regions.  During some sections of the record, particularly in sleep, left occipital sharp waves and spikes are noted.  These sometimes wax and wane, but do not clearly evolve.
The discharges are slightly less prominent on the morning of October 9, 2012.  The activity from the right hemisphere remains slow.
The epileptiform activity persists through stage II sleep.
Heart rate:  72 BPM.



