History:	62 YO MALE P/W SZ WHILE SITTING IN CHAIR WITH GENERALIZED SHAKING
LASTING 1-2 MIN, BLOOD COMING FROM MOUTH. SINCE SZ PT HAS BEEN
CONFUSED. . HX OF HLD, CVA, HTN, AND SZ (2010 AND 2014).
Medications:	KEPPRA, SEROQUEL
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 16 hours from 12/04/2015 to 12/05/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily in detail by the attending neurologist  for detection of seizures and changes in
EEG patterns.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 8Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  Excess diffuse admixed 50-75 uV, 5-7Hz activity is present throughout the
recording and increases during drowsiness.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central
theta activity, frontal beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and
becomes intermittent.  During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz
activity, and symmetric sleep spindles and K complexes appear.
Very frequent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left temporal region with a large varying
field from anterior to posterior during wakefulness, increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform
discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  Hr was 66
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, nearly continuous, left temporal
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild diffuse
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of very frequent intermittent focal
slowing in the left temporal region.  This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is
etiologically non-specific. In addition there is mild  diffuse background slowing.  This finding is
indicative of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.




