CLINICAL HISTORY: 65 year old man with a history of alcohol abuse who developed new onset seizures about a month ago, subsequently started on Keppra, now observed to have new facial twitching and decrease in mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra and Dilantin
REASON FOR STUDY:  Rule out nonconvulsive status epilepticus.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long term monitoring EEG was performed using the 10-20 electrode placement system with additional T1-T2 electrodes.  EKG too was employed.  Spike detection program and seizure detection program, as well as nursing notes and medical staff notes were used for review.  Activating procedures, such as hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not done.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm.  There is no expected anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Occasional periods of discontinuity are observed.  The background consists of a mixture of diffuse polymorphic low to moderate amplitude theta and mixed with low amplitude high frequency activity.  There are continuous 1 Hz periodic epileptiform discharges that are observed diffusely with the highest amplitude over the right occipital region.  These discharges do not organize into electrographic seizures. Normal sleep is not captured, despite prolonged periods of sleep. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
EKG shows normal sinus rhythm on a single EKG electrode.
FINDINGS:
Moderate diffuse slowing with periods of discontinuity.
Generalized 1 Hz periodic epileptiform discharges most prominent over the right occipital region.
No electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a very abnormal, nearly 18 hour continuous video EEG, due to moderate diffuse slowing with periods of discontinuity and generalized epileptiform discharges most prominent over the right occipital region. Diffuse slowing and periods of discontinuity indicate nonspecific cerebral dysfunction that could particularly be related to medication effect.  Epileptiform discharges are a sign of increased cortical excitability and increased risk of seizures, especially emanating from the right occipital region.  Correlation with brain imaging may be helpful.  No electrographic seizures are captured.  When compared to the EEG from August 10, 2012 there is an increase in the degree of diffuse slowing, as well as appearance of new generalized epileptiform discharges.  These findings were discussed with the primary team.



