CLINICAL HISTORY:  Confusional Spells
MEDICATIONS:  Wellbutrin, Neurontin, Topamax, Paxil, many others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Seizure and spike detection software was utilized.  The patient had a clinical event at 6:33 in the morning characterized by ringing in his ears.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, there is a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  Abundant stage 2 sleep with vertex waves, K complexes, spindles and POSTS were noted.
Event 6:33 a.m.:  EEG at this time demonstrates a normal awake pattern.
INTERVAL IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION:  No epileptiform features were observed.  This patient makes many transitions between wakefulness and sleep during the overnight recording was disrupted.
October 16-17
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 46-year-old male with multiple medical problems and episodes with confusion.
INTRODUCTION:  This is the second day of continuous video EEG monitoring.  During this section of the record, the patient pushed the button at 3:12 p.m. on October 16, 2012, 5:03 on October 16, 2012, 9:00 p.m. on October 16, 2012.  In addition, push buttons were noted at 10:27 on October 16, 2012, 6:02 a.m. and 7:43 on October 17, 2012.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG demonstrates a well organized background with symmetric alpha rhythm.  Stage II sleep includes vertex waves, K-complexes, spindles, as well as POSTS.
In the overnight recording, the patient is more consistently asleep.
Push buttons:  All push button files were reviewed.  The patient is awake for all of these events.  No epileptiform features were noted.  Clinically, the patient reported tinnitus.  On one occasion he also had poor responsiveness and was slumped over to the side, but the EEG demonstrated an awake pattern.
Heart rate:  60 BPM.
IMPRESSION:  This 48-hour long term video EEG monitoring session was remarkable for:
Normal awake and sleep EEG.
Multiple push button events and clinical events without an EEG change.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The events recorded do not appear to be epileptiform seizures.  In addition, no interictal epileptiform features were noted.  There were behavioral features, including at one point a patient who appeared to be unresponsive with a normal awake alpha rhythm to suggest that this may be an emotional disorder.



