History:	57 year old female presents with h/o left subdural hematoma s/p surgery/left
craniotomy on 6/14/14. She now presents with a change in mental status and
Medications:	Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes, lethargic,
obtunded
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours. Nursing-initiated event buttons were
correlated with clinical behavior.  Graphical representation of the EEG was available at the
bedside and over the hospital network for continuous review by trained nurses and EEG
technologists.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for
detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were
reviewed in detail by the ICU monitoring technician or clinical neurophysiology fellow and the
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
There is an obvious hemispheric asymmetry with slow theta and delta over the right hemisphere
and frequent recurrent spikes (see below) over the left.  A clear posterior dominant rhythm is not
seen.  No clear normal sleep architecture is seen.
At times, the epileptiform discharges (spikes, PLEDs) over the left abate, and there is only low to
medium amplitude slowing seen over the left hemisphere. These last approximately 20-30 seconds.
There are nearly continuous left hemispheric PLEDs that are maximal at T3-T5. There are less
frequent more anteriorly maximal spikes seen as well.  There is a recurrent pattern of electrographic
seizures observed characterized by a rhythmic buildup of left T5 maximal spikes at 2.5-3Hz that
evolve and persist for 30 seconds.  By report, these seizures were associated with leftward eye
deviation although this is not seen on the accompanying video. Over the next 24 hours, following
treatment with lorazepam, phenytoin, levetiracetam, and midazolam, there was cessation  of the
seizures, with global background attenuation, and rare left posterior temporal PLEDs.
There is minimal response to voice or tactile stimulation.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, bilateral diffuse
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, left hemispheric
PLEDs (periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges), nearly continuous, left temporal, posterior
Status epilepticus, left temporal, posterior
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour video EEG due to diffuse slowing, focal left slowing, left PLEDs, and	recurrent eye deviation.
status epilepticus. These findings are consistent with a highly irritative focus of structural brain
injury within the left hemisphere.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.


