History:	64 Y.O. FEMALE WHO IS A POOR HISTORIAN.  PT EVALUATED FOR EPISODES
OF BODY JERKING THAT STARTED AFTER BEING GIVEN ANTI-SPASM
MEDICATION. HX: CABG X2 WITH COMPLICATIONS LEADING TO 1YR COMA
AND RIGHT ABOVE THE KNEE AMPUTATION. PT ALSO HAS ASTHMA.
Medications:	Oxycontin, Endocet
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Extended, 40-60 min
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, photic
Description:
Waking background is characterized by a 25-40uV, 9Hz alpha rhythm, which attenuates
symmetrically with eye opening.  Symmetric 5-15uV, 18-25Hz activity is present, maximal over
bilateral frontal regions.  During drowsiness, the background slows to central theta activity, frontal
beta activity becomes more prominent, and the alpha rhythm attenuates and becomes intermittent.
During stage 2 sleep, the record slows further to moderate voltage 2-4Hz activity, and symmetric
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present independently in the bilateral frontotemporal
regions.  Frequent frontally-maximal spikes are present. Some of these appear to be left fronto
central maximal and some appear to be more generalized and bifrontal.
Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps)
does not produce any effect.  HR was 66
Summary of Findings:
Spikes
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, bilateral frontotemporal
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep 42 minutes EEG because of frequent left fronto
central and generalized frontal maximal epileptiform discharges, which are potentially
epileptogenic. These discharges may represent a generalized epilepsy syndrome with fragmented
discharges  or alternatively this may represent a focal discharge with rapid bilateral spread. In
addition, there is  intermittent focal slowing independently in the bilateral frontotemporal regions.
This finding is indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific.  frequent
left fronto central and generalized frontal maximal epileptiform discharges


