History:	58 year old woman, POD#18 after left carotid stent. Now presents with confusion,
change in mental status, and word finding difficulties. Undergoing evaluation for
seizures.  PMHX: CVA 2010, RIGHT HEMIPARESIS.
Medications:	NEURONTIN, PLAVIX, ZOFRAN, INSULIN, CARVEDILOL
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, asleep
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 08/18/2015 to 08/19/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
None
Description:
The waking background is symmetric, reactive, and has fair organization with a 7-Hz posterior
dominant rhythm, which attenuates symmetrically with eye opening.  Drowsiness is characterized by
attenuation of the posterior dominant rhythm and theta slowing.  Sleep transients, including vertex
waves, K complexes, and spindles, are symmetric and normal.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity is present in the left midtemporal region during wakefulness,
increasing during drowsiness.  No epileptiform discharges are present.  No clinical or electrographic
seizures were present.
Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.  A heart beat of 66 bpm is captured on
a single EKG lead.
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, occasional, left temporal, mid
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, mild
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake, drowsy, and sleep EEG because of occasional polymorphic left mid
temporal slowing superimposed on mild diffuse background slowing and suboptimal organization.
These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of left hemispheric cerebral dysfunction,
possibly structural in origin, superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction.







