REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.

CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 61-year-old man with history of alcohol abuse with new onset focal seizures with right upper extremity shaking, eyes deviating to the left.

MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin.

INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed from October 20, 2012 to October 22, 2012 using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG.  The patient was recorded during responsiveness.  Activating procedures were not performed.

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontal central beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.  Overall there is a generalized delta with at times overriding bursts of theta bursts.  At times there is also slight diffuse attenuation.

Abnormal discharges:
1. Focal sharp waves seen continuously with a frontal predominance at F7/F3 that appear to move more posteriorly, more centrally, and then more posteriorly towards C3 and P3 at a frequency of 1-2 Hz rhythmically and monomorphically consistent with periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLED's).
2. Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-40 mV seen continuously throughout the recording.  At times there is an overriding beta that occurs infrequently and also some diffuse burst suppression for less than 1 to 2 seconds.
Seizures:
1. On 10/21/2012 at 9:43am and on 10/22/2012 at 4:01am there were seizures seen on the EEG with a sudden increase in frequency to a beta discharge of about 13-14 Hz maximally over the left frontal F3 electrode and C3 central electrode which continues to increase in frequency and in about a minute there appears to be an electrographic correlate, a clinical correlate, with right facial twitching.  This discharge continues for about 1-2 minutes and then suddenly stops and subsides.  It remains mainly over the left hemisphere and does not appear to spread to the right.
2. On 10/22/2012 at 8:24 a.m. the patient develops a similar rhythmic beta discharge which increases in frequency and appears to settle over the left frontal (F3) and moves centrally (C3) region, however, remaining only over the left hemisphere.  This seizures lasts about 1 minute and has no clinical correlate to it.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left frontal central seizures, two with a focal motor correlate in the right face, as well as one electrographic, in addition to left frontal central PLED's and diffuse slowing.








CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG revealed 3 left frontal central seizures, two with a focal motor correlate and one electrographic seizure, which is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy.  In addition, there is evidence of left frontal central acute structural dysfunction and irritability.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific, but maybe due at least in part to medication effect.

These findings were reported to the primary team after review of the EEG.




