
History:	23 year old man with a history of GSW to the head with resultant right craniectomy
and cranioplasty.
Medications:	Depakote, baclofen, lovenox. Motrin, tylenol 3
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Routine, awake & drowsy
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, awake, drowsy, photic
Description:
The posterior dominant rhythm consists of low amplitude 8.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with
eyes opening.  There is an AP gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.
During drowsiness, the alpha rhythm attenuates, and 5-7Hz slow waves appear diffusely, followed
by symmetric vertex waves.  Vertex waves are more pronounced over the right.
Intermittent polymorphic delta activity and underriding fast activity is present in the right posterior
region.  A sharp transient with phase reversal over F4/C4 and F8/T4 electrodes is captured at 1:55
pm.  This sharp wave likely represents displaced prominent vertex wave.
Hyperventilation is performed for 240 seconds with fair effort, and produces no effect.  Stepped
photic stimulation from 1-21 flashes per second (fps) does not produce additional abnormalities.  A
single EKG lead demonstrates heart rate of ~ 60 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
No stage 2 sleep
Focal slowing, polymorphic, intermittent, right posterior
Breach artifact, right posterior
Sharp transients, one, right central and anterior temporal - suspect displaced vertex wave
Asymmetry, sleep architecture, more prominent over the right.
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL awake and drowsy 27 minute EEG because of intermittent right posterior
moderate slowing and more prominent sleep architecture over the right. These findings are
indicative of focal cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically non-specific, but possibly structural in
origin and is consistent with patient's history of right hemispheric head injury/ craniectomy.  Breach
artifact is seen secondary to the skull defect.  A single right central/ anterior temporal sharp transient
likely represent a displaced and prominent vertex wave - a repeat, more prolonged EEG, with
sleep recording may provide additional information.




