CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 61-year-old male with a past history of Lyme disease, thrombocytopenia, small subdural hematoma and pituitary adenoma.  The patient presented with visual hallucinations, which included seeing well-formed hallucinations such as elephants, lasting many minutes and then more poorly formed visual distortions lasting a brief period of time.  The patient reported no impairment of awareness during the visual phenomena, but did feel anxious the spells.

DATES OF STUDY:  September 22-23.

MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Keppra, Ativan, others

INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient did not initially understand that he was to push the button for his clinical symptoms.  He was able to provide excellent history.  When the data was reviewed with him, he did indicate that he had well-formed visual hallucinations at 8 p.m. on the evening of Saturday, the 22nd, and then the visual distortions described above.  He did not understand that he was to have utilized the seizure pushbutton until the morning of the 23rd.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  As this long-term monitor begins, there is an intermittent asymmetry with intermittent disruptions of alpha rhythm on the right compared to the left as well as intermittent slowing of the alpha rhythm.

Of note, nurses did confirm with the patient how to use the pushbutton at 1:19 on the 22nd.

Seizure:  Time:  7:43.  The patient is chewing near the onset of the seizure.  This is a prolonged epileptiform discharge initially really only at T6/O2.  By 7:51, it seems to have spread an is a little bit more prominent bilaterally.  There is bit more of an occipital field picked up on the left and there is no well-defined alpha noted on the left.  The nurses comes to check on the patient and fix the electrodes at 8:11.

The nurse spends a great deal of time with the patient and they have a long conversation.  The patient continues to have an electrographic seizure which waxes and wanes in terms of its spread in the right occipital region with spike and wave activity.  It may be T6 or O2 maximum.

After she leaves at 8:27, there is a bit more bilateral representation.  The seizure starts to slow down at 8:46, then waxes and wanes, recurring at 8:51.  It stops at 9:03.  The patient did not recall additional seizures after that episode.  Subsequently, he did disclose that he did recall the event and was aware that he had well-formed visual hallucinations of seeing a horse.

There is a 2nd seizure at 9:46, significantly briefer.  A 3rd seizure is noted at 10:28, again a brief discharge from the right occipital region.

In the overnight recording, on 09/22-09/23 the patient has many seizures.  When confronted, he did recall that he had the seizures, but did not report them to the nurses.  He has an approximately 30-minute discharge at 8 p.m. which is a right posterotemporal occipital discharge.  He is tested by the nurse who is not aware of the seizure.  The nurse checks the electrodes during the EEG.  She and the patient have a long conversation, the patient answers questions appropriately and does not appear to have disclosed the seizure to her.

The patient is up very late at night.  Subsequently, he has multiple brief seizures at 9 p.m., 10 p.m., 11:04, 12:03, 12:56, 1:21 a.m., 1:37 a.m.  An additional seizure at 1:59 a.m. is also noted which is slightly different and will be mentioned separately, 2:25 a.m.  He is drifting off to sleep after this.

The seizures are all about 2-3 minutes in duration and are characterized by spike activity in the right occipital region.  There is some volume conductions to the left occipital region.  When the patient drifts off to sleep, the seizures seem to stop.

The seizure at 1:59 is remarkable for more of a pattern of rhythmic theta than the spike and wave activity.  As the patient is drifting off to sleep at 2:49, he has another seizure, seems to arouse, but then drifts into stage 2 sleep.  Another seizure is noted at 3:10.  By this point, the patient seems to have transitioned from a pattern of 1 seizure per hour with the onset at 8 p.m. to about 1every 1/2 hour or so.

Spontaneous arousals from sleep are noted at 4 a.m. and there are sections of the record when the patient is awake at 4 a.m. with a well-defined, symmetric background and then a seizure at 4:02.  The seizure and spike detection program picks up a seizure at 5:49 and 6:54.

On the morning of the 23rd, the nurse discusses with the patient the seizures that he is experiencing.  He describes them as brief visual distortions.  The subsequent seizures are brief, typically 2-3 minutes with a very focal epileptiform discharge in the right posterior quadrant.  The patient describes these seizures as being associated with a visual distortion.

The RN and MD were present in the unit with the patient, the patient still requires reminders to push the button.  He does volunteer verbally after much reinforcement that he is having a seizure, but still forgets to push the button with his seizures.

Additional recurrent discharges are noted at 10:54:50.  The patient receives 5 mg of oral Valium.  Around this time, he also receives 1000 mg of levetiracetam.  An additional seizure is noted at 11:11 a.m.  Repeat seizure is noted at 11:34 a.m.  Another seizure is noted at 11:50.

The house officer initiates phenytoin around this time.  A seizure is noted at 12:05, again the same brief discharge in the right occipital region.  There is a small increase in beta.

Another seizure is noted at 12:26 and a repeat seizure at 12:43, again with the same characteristics.

As the patient becomes drowsy, there is an asymmetry of dropout of faster frequency activity on the right compared to the left.  As the patient starts to drift off to sleep at 1:27 p.m., the seizures seem to improve.

Heart rate 84 BPM.



INTRODUCTION:  Continuous video EEG was performed in the long term monitoring unit.  This section of the record includes September 23 and September 24, 2012.  The patient had multiple seizures on the night of September 23, 2012, slowing to infrequent seizures on the morning of September 24, 2012.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In much of the waking background, the activity is symmetric, well defined alpha rhythm.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K-complexes, and spindles.

Intermittent complex partial seizures or simple partial seizures are noted from the right occipital region on the night of September 23, 2012.  The patient receives additional phenytoin and valium.  There is hiatus between 3:00 a.m. and 3:52 a.m. with simple partial seizure characterized by repetitive ictal activity and the next seizure at 8:37 a.m.

As the record continues on September 24, 2012, additional sleep is recorded during the day with vertex waves and an increase in beta.  There is an intermittent disruption of the alpha rhythm on the right.

Heart rate:  60 BPM.



CONTINUATION

A 61-year-old male with Lyme disease, pituitary adenoma and right subdural hematoma, now with recurrent hallucinations.

September 23rd:  During this section of the record, the patient is aware of seizures in the early parts of the recording.  A seizure was noted at 1:29 p.m. on the 23rd.  After this, the patient is sleeping and in sleep, there is subtle focal slowing in the right posterior quadrant.  Consistently, the patient does not seem to seize during sleep.

Seizure was noted by the patient at 2:03:24, his typical 2-minute seizure.  The next seizure is at 2:54 p.m.  Seizure identical to previously described seizures was noted at 3:19 and another one at 3:35.  The next seizure is at 4:38:59, again lasting 2-3 minutes.  After this, the patient is awake with a well-defined alpha.  Another seizure was noted at 4:43 and at 4:46.  Again, seizure was noted at 5:10 p.m. and then at 5:47.  At this time, the patient  is very good about identifying his seizures.  He does not have another seizure until 7:51 and then another one at 8:15 p.m.

By 8:16, the EEG demonstrates a normal awake pattern.  By 8:28, the patient is falling asleep and is in stage 2 sleep.



INTRODUCTION:  This continuous video EEG monitoring is performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This last section on the 24th includes a significant amount of sleep.

By this section in the record, the patient had learned to push the button for all seizures.  No seizures were recorded in the final hours of the EEG recording, but occasional subtle right occipital spikes or sharp waves were noted.  As the recording continued, the intermittent alpha asymmetry resolves.  There were some bursts of posterior temporal theta, but none with the frequency evolution noted with the well-defined seizures.

There was one more subtle discharge noted at 3:10 p.m. with very subtle spiking in the right occipital region.  This was one of the patient's typical 3-minute seizures.  A final brief seizure was recorded at 6:17 p.m. on the 24th.

Heart rate 120 bpm.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal continuous video EEG monitoring due to:
1. A pattern of intermittent seizures, quite prominent on the morning of the 23rd, out of the right occipital region.
2. Intermittent right occipital slowing.
3. Intermittent right occipital disruption of the alpha rhythm.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This epileptiform pattern is congruent with this patient's imaging and supports a focal mechanism for seizures.




