CLINICAL HISTORY:  48 year old female with sarcoidosis S/P transplant lung. Patient now with head MM, onset over night.

MEDICATIONS:  Propofol, Fentanyl, Prograf, Valcyte, Voriconazole, Methyl Pred, Protonix, Vancomycin, Cefepime, Heparin

REASON FOR STUDY:  Rule out seizures.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while minimally responsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record reveals a diffusely slow background of posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 5 Hz which does not appear to be reactive to eye opening or closing.  No activating procedures were performed.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.  At times during the recording, the patient becomes aroused and there is diffuse muscle artifact and there is an increase in the frequency of the recording to more of a theta pattern with a more frontal beta rhythm for seconds.

ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
1. Generalized slow waves are seen throughout the recording at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts seen almost continuously throughout the recording.
2. There are bursts of frontal intermittent rhythmic delta (FIRDA) seen throughout the recording.

MOVEMENT:  During the recording, the patient jerks the head back a couple occasions for a duration of 1 second.  There is an EMG artifact in the recording, but no clear EEG correlate to this movement.

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Generalized slowing and frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity with some reactivity.


CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.  The episodes with head jerks had no EEG correlate.  This may represent nonepileptic events or alternatively, they may indicate simple partial seizures which 75% of the time do not have an EEG correlate.




