History:	27 year old man admitted with convulsive status epilepticus, now remains intubated
and poorly responsive.
Medications:	CEFTRIAXONE, LORAZEPAM DRIP - weaned minimally throughout the recording
epoch; Depakote
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (input, video), 24 hrs
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for ~19 hours from ~1 PM on 12/27/2013 till ~ 7 AM on
12/28/2013.   Nursing-initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw
EEG data was reviewed at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes
in EEG patterns.   All automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending
neurologist.  The Gotman spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the
EEG in real time for electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events	0
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
No posterior dominant rhythm was present.  Background activity is characterized by diffuse low
voltage delta activity with overriding diffuse 12-14 Hz activity with absence of the expected anterior
to posterior gradient of frequencies.  No normal sleep architecture is present, however, periods of
quiescence are evident.
No focal slowing is present.  No clinical or electrographic seizures are present.
There was reactivity to auditory, tactile, or painful stimuli.  A single EKG lead frequently
demonstrates heart rate above 100 bpm.
Summary of Findings:
Beta, excessive
No electrographic seizures
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, continuous, severe
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 19 hour continuous video EEG because of severe diffuse background
slowing and absent alpha rhythm.  These findings are etiologically nonspecific indicators of severe
diffuse cerebral dysfunction, that, in this patient, at least partially related to the medication effect.
Excess beta activity could be secondary to the medications, such as benzodiazepines or
barbiturates.  No electrographic seizures are present.


