AGE: 69 y.o.
SEX: male
DATE OF STUDY: 11/24/2015
RECORDING ENVIRONMENT: inpatient
EEG TYPE: 20-40 min, awake and asleep EEG # : 15-1727
HISTORY:
69 y.o. male referred for routine EEG for assessment of mental status change. He was found down on the
porch and has no memory of how long he was there. Of note, he has a newly diagnosed brain tumor.
MEDICATIONS: Dexamethasone, insulin SEDATION: None
TECHNIQUE:
A 21 channel electroencephalogram	(EEG) was recorded using the International 10-20 system with Tl/T2 electrodes and utilized a NicOne system. This was a technically satisfactory record and included a single channel of EKG and photic stimulation.
EEG BACKGROUND:
The waking background is continuous and asymmetric.
The left hemisphere is characterized by a mixture of alpha and theta frequencies with a posterior dominant rhythm of 7.5-8 Hz, with fair organization.
The right hemisphere is characterized by delta activity with attenuated faster frequencies, with poor organization, and no posterior dominant rhythm.
During drowsiness, slow rolling eye movements, attenuation and
fragmentation of the posterior dominant rhythm, and diffuse background slowing are seen.
Sleep is characterized by normal sleep transients, with synchronous and symmetric vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes. Slow wave sleep was not captured.
There is mild generalized slowing is present.
There is continuous right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing. There is occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing.
EPILEPTIFORM ACTIVITY:
Occasional (1/hour to <1 min) left fronto-temporal (F3 > Fpl/Fz >
F7) sharp-and-slow-wave complexes are present.
OTHER PAROXYSMAL ACTIVITY (NON-EPILEPTIFORM):
None
ACTIVATION PROCEDURES: Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
EVENTS:
There are no clinical or electrographic events captured during this study.
HEART RATE:
A heart rate of 54 bpm is captured on a single EKG lead.
IMPRESSION:
This is an abnormal awake and asleep routine EEG due to:
Mild generalized slowing and suboptimal organization
Continuous right fronto-temporal polymorphic slowing
Occasional left temporal polymorphic slowing
Occasional (1/hour to <1 min) left fronto-temporal (F3 > Fpl/Fz
>  F7) sharp-and-slow-wave complexes
CLINICAL CORRELATION:
These findings indicate the presence of right fronto-temporal cerebral dysfunction (likely structural in etiology), left temporal cerebral dysfunction (structural or physiologic in origin), superimposed on mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, and left fronto-temporal epileptogenic potentials.



