History:	88 year old man status post right hemispheric SDH evacuation several days ago,
now with frequent episodes of head turning to the left and accompanied visual
Medications:	Depakote, Dilantin
Sedation:
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpatient), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes with T1/T2 electrodes and EKG
electrodes, drowsy, asleep, lethargic
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 09/05/2015 till 09/06/2015.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior. Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
Arousals are poorly sustained.  During periods of arousals, the posterior dominant rhythm is
fragmented and is 8 Hz maximally.  Overall, the awake background consists primarily of diffuse
polymorphic theta activity.  Poorly visualized sleep spindles are seen.
Continuous polymorphic theta and delta activity and underriding fast activity is present in the right
posterior temporal - posterior quadrant region.  Three typical right hemispheric focal seizures are
captured, lasting ~ 1.5-3.5 minutes (at 1:52 pm, 5:08 pm and 2:49 am ).  There is no clear clinical
correlate.  Frequent broadly based blunted right posterior temporal- parietal sharp waves are seen
(T4/T6/P4 maximally).
Summary of Findings:
Focal slowing, polymorphic, continuous, moderate, right posterior
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, moderate
Sharp waves, frequent, right, posterior temporal- parietal
Seizure, right, 3 sz, temporoparietal, 1.5-3.5 min
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL continuous 24-hour video EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing; continuous
focal right posterior temporal- posterior quadrant focal slowing; frequent right posterior temporal-
parietal epileptiform discharges and three right temporoparietal focal 1.5-3.5 minutes subclinical
seizures.  There is an ictal structural focus over the right temporoparietal region.  Diffuse slowing is
indicative of moderate diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is etiologically nonspecific.  These
findings were conveyed to the primary team.
hallucinations.





