CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 70-year-old female presents to emergency room with right leg shaking.  Patient was getting out of bed when her right leg began to stiffen and then shake.  There is no loss of consciousness or urinary incontinence.  Past medical history is significant for hypertension, coronary artery disease, CHF, hyperlipidemia, and stroke with right-sided weakness.
MEDICATIONS:  Metoprolol, aspirin, Plavix, Keppra, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 7-8 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is a small amount of low amplitude, frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of the posterior dominant rhythm and slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  There were occasional burst of left anterior and mid temporal slowing at F7/T3, during wakefulness consisting of 4-5 Hz activity.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in no driving response.  Heart rate was 60 beats per minutes and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity seen in wakefulness and slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
Left focal temporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing could be due to metabolic, toxic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Focal slowing is suggestive of a structural abnormality in the left hemisphere or left temporal dysfunction.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures were captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



