CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 49-year-old right-handed man with history of seizures during asleep described as generalized tonic-clonic activity.  His last seizure was 6 months ago.  Past medical history is significant for hypertension and memory difficulties and hypertriglyceridemia.  This is a followup EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, oxazepam, Lamictal, citalopram, lithium.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG is performed in the lab using standard 10/20 system of electrode placement with 1-channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 8.5-9 Hz in frequency, 30-35 microvolt in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is 7-7.5 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is presence of stage 1 sleep characterized by disappearance of alpha rhythm, slowing of the background activity and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves.  Brief stage II sleep was captured characterized by the presence of K complexes and sleep spindles.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and did not result in a driving response.  Hyperventilation was also performed and results in diffuse slowing of the background activity.  Heart rate was 70-80 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to excess theta activity during wakefulness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings could be due to toxic, metabolic, hypoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities or seizures are identified in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat sleep deprived EEG or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



