History:	84 year old woman with focal status epilepticus in the setting of CABG with
subsequent strokes.
Medications:	DILANTIN, PROPOFOL
Sedation:	None
EEG Type:	Continuous (inpt, video), 24 hrs, portable
Technique:	International 10-20 System; standard 21 electrodes, comatose
Continuous bedside video-EEG monitoring
Continuous EEG monitoring was performed for 24 hours from 10/16/2013 to 10/17/2013.   Nursing-
initiated event buttons were correlated with clinical behavior.  Ongoing raw EEG data was reviewed
at least twice daily by the EEG team for detection of seizures and changes in EEG patterns.   All
automatically detected events were reviewed in detail by the attending neurologist.   The Gotman
spike and seizure detection algorithm (Stellate) was used to screen the EEG in real time for
electrographic seizures and interictal epileptiform discharges.
# Push button events
Description of pushbutton events
Description:
The background is markedly abnormal with no normal cerebral activity identified. Early in the
recording mild (~1:1) burst-suppression pattern seen on the right, with some field spread to the left
hemisphere.  The burst-suppression pattern is largely right hemispheric. The left hemisphere is
markedly attenuated and shows only low voltage beta and theta activity and periods of
discontinuity.  As the recording progresses, burst suppression resolves, voltages increase and a
background consistent of predominantly polymorphic theta and delta activity emerges.  This
The bursts consist of either single high-amplitude periodic epileptiform discharges (PEDs) or brief
(2-4 second) bursts of high amplitude sharps waves of similar morphology.  Sharp waves are
frequently accompanied by low amplitude fast activity.  These discharges all have a maximal field
at T6, P4, or C4 electrodes.
Summary of Findings:
Diffuse slowing, polymorphic, burst-suppression early and moderate slow as the recording
No electrographic seizures
Interpretation:
This is an ABNORMAL 24 hour continuous- video EEG because of moderate-to-severe diffuse
slowing, mild burst-suppression pattern and nearly continuous right temporoparietal PEDs.  These
finding suggest severe structural brain injury with highly epileptiform potential within the right
hemisphere, notably over the right temporoparietal region.  A burst-suppression pattern indicates
etiologically non-specific diffuse severe cerebral dysfunction that, in this case, is at least partially
related to the medication effect (anesthetics and anti-epileptic drugs).  No electrographic seizures
are captured.  These findings were communicated to the primary care team.




