CLINICAL HISTORY:  Term infant, at 2 days of life.  Patient was born by stat C. section, 30 minutes after rupture of membranes for abrupt change in fetal heart tones.  Prenatal exposure to Klonopin, Prozac and Abilify.

MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital.

INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using neonatal montage was performed in the neonatal ICU.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  This EEG demonstrates by and large a continuous and relatively symmetric pattern.  The appropriate developmental milestones for an infant of this gestational age have been established with delta brushes.  There are some somewhat asynchronous vertex waves, but overall the EEG is relatively symmetric.
Notable in this record are occasional sharp waves.  They do not exceed the accept background sharp waves, although there may be more sharp waves noted at C3 than might otherwise be expected. Trace alternans is noted, but on rare occasion there is more sustained suppression lasting up to 6 seconds.

Two seizures were recorded.  These were at 11:45 and 11:52.  Behaviorally, the seizures were similar with jerking of the right arm and/or leg.  The first seizure started after the infant seemed to have awakened with what appeared to be normal body movements and a slight decrease in the overall amplitude.

The first seizure was also noted to follow an arousal, which followed a more prolonged discontinuous Trace alternans.  In addition, the first seizure seems to start with a startle with relatively normal bilateral movements and then more clear oral automatisms and rhythmic shaking more of the right foot.

The second seizure has a bit more right hand and foot. The seizure has characteristic frequency evolution with high amplitude spike activity in the left central region.  In the frontocentral montage, it has a electro negativity, but there is a positivity at C3 relative to T3.  Afterwards, the EEG is a little lower voltage and briefly slightly discontinuous.  Overall, however, the overall voltage for this child is within normal limits. The second seizure has oral automatisms at the beginning and then the right body jerking much more so than the left.  Both of the seizures demonstrate frequency evolution.

Following the second seizure, the EEG is more continuous with a mixed frequency pattern.

Stimulation of the infant occurred after the second seizure.  The infant did not arouse particularly, but the EEG was a bit more continuous.

HR:   133 bpm

IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG for a neonate of this age due to:
1. Two clinical seizures with oral automatisms and right body twitching.
2. These seizures localized to the left central region.
3. Left central sharp waves greater than anticipated in the EEG prior to the seizure.
4. Likely, excessive discontinuity with a more prolonged trace alternans and 1 or 2 episodes of trace alternans for age.

CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is diagnostic of a seizure disorder.  The findings were reported to the clinical team.  Correlation with imaging was suggested.








