CLINICAL HISTORY:  2 year history of nocturnal convulsions. DM, HTN, obesity, family history of TLE.
MEDICATIONS:  Topiramate, Lamictal, others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring is performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG and seizure and spike detection software.  No clinical events were noted and no seizures were noted by the computerized software.
08/19/2014 to 08/20/2014
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:
Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm, which is symmetric and reactive to eye opening.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and posts.
In the initial sections of the record, there are bursts of rhythmic theta and delta noted only on the 1st day of recording.
Epileptiform Detections:  None.
Electrographic Seizures:  None.
Practice Pushbuttons.  12:59, normal awake pattern.
IMPRESSION:  The 1st 24 hours of video EEG monitoring was remarkable for burst of rhythmic slowing, noted only in the initial hours of recording on the day of admission.
08/20/2014 to 08/21/2014
The 24-hour section of EEG monitoring for this patient was recorded in 2 sections.
Background:
Random wakefulness and sleep and wakefulness, the background EEG was well organized.  In wakefulness, there are intermittent bursts of rhythmic background slowing noted.  Stage 2 sleep includes vertex waves, K complexes, and spindles.
Interictal Epileptiform Detections:  No definitive sharp waves or spikes were noted.
Seizure:
12:47 AM.  The patient had been in bed sleeping, though she was awake at the time of the seizure.  The patient's perception was that she was asleep; she did not recall the seizure.  She was under the covers and no clinical features were noted.  Electrographically, this 2-minute seizure was characterized by rhythmic theta from the left temporal region with transition by 12:47:13 to repetitive sharp waves and spikes of fast activity as well.  This seizure begins to slow by 12:48:16 with a periodic complex, which gradually fades with slow delta.  This seizure ends at 12:49:30, with postictal slowing with disruption of faster frequency activity
2:37:55.  This 1 minute 29 second electrographic seizure begins again during the overnight hours and the patient was asleep.  This event begins with rhythmic mixed theta, delta from the left hemisphere maximum at T1 with a generous field of spread into the anterior temporal region.  It transitions to repetitive sharp activity at 12:38:06 and then a polyspike component and then a slow periodic complex.  This seizure ends at 12:39:25 with focal slowing noted from the left hemisphere and disruption of faster frequency activity.
Heart rate 60 BPM.
Interval Impression/Clinical Correlation:  The 1st 48 hours of EEG monitoring was remarkable for.
Intermittent bursts of rhythmic slowing.
Two electrographic seizures from the left temporal region both occurring out of sleep.  The seizures are as the patient describes, occurring without her awareness of the event.  In addition, because they occur out of sleep, there are few clinical manifestations noted.
DATE OF STUDY:  August 21 through August 22nd.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 55-year-old woman with adult onset refractory epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS:  Topiramate, Effexor, y others.
INTRODUCTION:  Continuous digital video EEG monitoring was performed in the unit using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  No seizures were reported by the patient, clinical team or the computer.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  Background:  In wakefulness, there is a 9 Hz posterior dominant rhythm.  Vertex waves, K complexes, spindles, and POSTS were noted in sleep.
Interictal discharges:  Intermittent bursts of theta were noted with more of a frontal predominance.  Some of these seem to have almost a left frontotemporal notch theta, approximately 4Hz. No other well-defined sharp waves or spikes were noted in this section of the record.
Pushbuttons:  Practice pushbuttons were performed at 7:59, 9:23 a.m., 6:42 p.m., and 8:54 p.m.  No seizures had occurred at that time.
Seizures:  None.
Heart rate 60 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is the third day of continuous video EEG monitoring.  Overall, the long-term monitoring session is remarkable for:
Two electrographic seizures with left temporal lobe maximum, occurring out of sleep.
Intermittent bursts of rhythmic slowing.
Intermittent bursts of notched slowing with a frontal maximum, perhaps more so on the left.
A paucity of interictal  focal epileptiform complexes.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  In this individual with an unusual family history of epilepsy, this EEG supports a focal mechanism for epilepsy.  As the patient disclosed in her history, she has almost exclusively nocturnal seizures.  The seizures that were recorded were in the overnight hours with the patient under the covers, therefore behavioral manifestations of the seizures were not well described.



