REFERRING FOR STUDY:  Recurrent seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 44-year-old woman with a history of seizures since she was 18 months of age that presents with multiple seizure types refractory to multiple medications.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
MEDICATIONS:  Gabapentin, Depakote, Elavil, and Ritalin.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine video EEG was performed using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with the addition of anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz, however, at times has super harmonic of 18 Hz.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and stage I sleep.  During stage I sleep there were prominent posts seen rhythmically.  There is a generous amount of frontocentral beta seen throughout the recording.  Activating procedures included photic stimulation which produced normal discharges, however, hyperventilation accentuated focal slowing as described in abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen frequently at F7/T3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-50 microvolts.  At times these were very sharply contoured with a wicket-like appearance and this focal slowing was also accentuated by hyperventilation.
Focal slow waves seen independently at F8/T4 and a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-40 microvolts seen occasionally.
SEIZURES:  None.
HEART RATE:  72.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to frequent left anterior temporal and occasional right anterior temporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left anterior temporal region and independently in the right anterior temporal region, both of which are nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No clear seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen.  The diffuse amount of beta may be due at least in part to medication affect.



