Total length of the recording: about 16 hours.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 53-year-old man status post cardiac resuscitation on 08/06/2013, who is now undergoing hypothermia protocol.  His current body temperature is 93.8 degrees.
MEDICATIONS:  Include propofol drip and Ativan and others.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording is performed according to the 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The recording was reviewed at least once during the recording by the attending physician.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  Early in the recording, diffuse EMG artifact is present that obscures multiple leads and limits the interpretation of the recording during those times.  The degree of EMG artifact decreases as the recording progresses, and stops altogether at approximately 9 p.m.  It is unclear why EMG artifact is disappears since no notation is made on the EEG recording, however, it is possible that the patient might have received a paralytic agent.  The background consists of bursts of polymorphic theta and delta activity that are low in amplitude admixed with a period of background discontinuity.  As the recording progresses, bursts of activity shorten and periods of discontinuity increase and the patient finally reaches the burst to suppression ratio.  As the recording progresses, the burst to suppression ratio interval increases gradually, and bursts become shorter and less well formed.  At approximately 6:25 a.m., rhythmic diffuse activity is noted on the EEG.  Based on the video view, it appears to correspond to possible CPR administration.  It discontinues until about 6:47 a.m.  Once this CPR artifact stops, there is no discernible cerebral activity and there is also no heart rate that is picked on the single EKG lead.  Of note, prior to CPR, a single EKG lead demonstrated a heart rate of approximately 30 beats per minute.
FINDINGS:  Diffuse background slowing that increases gradually as the recording progresses.  No clear discernible cerebral activity after approximately 6:47 a.m.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 16 hour continuous video EEG monitoring due to worsening of background slowing and burst suppression that finally progressed to complete suppression of all background activity.  Sinus bradycardia is noted on a single EKG lead.  After 6:47 a.m., the EKG lead does not demonstrate any heartbeat.



