CLINICAL HISTORY:  74 year old woman with left-sided weakness and slow speech and confusion with 2 episodes of twitching of the left hand and twisting of the lips.
MEDICATIONS:  Famotidine, Probenecid, Hydralazine, Aspirin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Left-sided weakness with twitching of the right hand and lips.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a mildly diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 8 Hz and can only be seen over the left hemisphere.  Over the left hemisphere, there is normal amount of frontocentral beta, however, none can be seen over the right hemisphere.  Patient appears to be awake and go into stage change of sleep, but the classic sleep architecture is not seen. Activating procedures were not performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow sharp waves seen periodically in the right hemisphere usually maximal at F8/T4, however, at times more maximal at F8, at times even more maximal at T6 and some of them appear to be maximal at FP2.  These sharp waves were occurring periodically at a frequency of 0.5-1 Hz with an amplitude of 20-70 microvolts.  The periodicity is consistent with periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLEDs).
Focal slow waves in the right hemisphere maximal at T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.
Generalized slow waves at a frequency of 5-7 Hz with an amplitude of 20-40 microvolts seen continuously throughout the recording.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Right hemisphere periodic lateralized epileptic discharges maximally in the midtemporal region, although with broad field.
Mild generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of right hemispheric maximal in the midtemporal region, but with a broad field, cortical dysfunction and irritability, which is consistent with an acute lesion in that region.  In addition, there is evidence of mild diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures were seen.



