CLINICAL HISTORY:  51 year old right handed male with tonic clonic seizures on the 13th and schizophrenia as well as MRSA infection.  He had a breach rhythm.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan, Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.  The patient is in isolation.  This is an awake and sleep record in an ill-appearing, somewhat agitated patient.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is low to medium amplitude with a theta and beta pattern.  The right hemisphere demonstrates lower voltage beta.  The left hemisphere demonstrates more theta.  There is a medium amplitude, somewhat subtle, sharp wave noted in the left anterior temporal region.  It has little bit in variability, may be seen at T1, at 7 or even T3.  There is sometimes some posterior temporal spread to it.  The sharp waves may be seen with a subtle build-up of activity and at 11:48:56, while the patient is resting comfortably with no clinical signs, there is a build-up of theta with sharp activity.  The nurses are in the room and in fact, are standing in front of the patient and working with the patient.  He is interacting during this discharge and then another discharge is noted at 11:50:16.  This is followed by higher amplitude, left anterior temporal spike and slow wave complexes.  These demonstrate a P3 maximum.  A third more subtle discharge is noted at 11:56 but does not have the same build-up.  No clinical symptoms are associated with this.
HR:    78 bpm
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Background slowing.
Asymmetry with lower voltage beta pattern on the right and more of a beta pattern on the left.
Prominent sharp waves in the left hemisphere with variability including mid or anterior temporal as well as some posterior temporal.
At least 3 subtle bursts of epileptiform activity with some evidence of evolution but without clinical signs or symptoms.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The bursts described above are unclear significance.  While they are worrisome in terms of prominent, irritative epileptiform pattern, they are not remarkably evolving and there were no clinical seizures noted.  This may represent an inner ictal pattern for this individual with complex partial epilepsy.  Comparison with previous EEGs may be of value



