CLINICAL HISTORY:  88 year old woman found down, not moving her right side, and aphasic.  CT showed left MCA stroke.  Past medical history is significant for DVTs, hydrocephalus, kidney disorder, and questionable Alzheimer's disorder.
MEDICATIONS:  Altace, Insulin.
REASON FOR EEG:  Rule out seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures, including photic stimulation and hyperventilation, were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well defined posterior dominant rhythm at 9-10 Hz on the right hemisphere, but on the left hemisphere there is a disorganized slow frequency with a maximum of left temporal at T1 and 3, which is consistent throughout the recording.  There is a disruption of the fast activity on the left side with a sharp contoured wave and slowing at the left mid temporal. The patient appears to go to stage I sleep.  Activating procedures, including hyperventilation and photic stimulation, produced no abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Disrupted and slow background on the left side with focal slowing, maximum at T1 and T3 consistent throughout the recording.
Disrupted fast activity on the left side.
Sharp waves on T3 with more than 100 mV amplitude.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Left sided focal slowing in the mid temporal region, maximum at T1 and T3.
Disrupted fast activity on the left side.
Sharp waves on the left temporal, maximum at T3.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  There were no seizures seen in this EEG, however, left sided focal slowing with a sharp wave on the mid temporal region and the sharp fast activity in the left hemisphere can be consistent with white and gray matter underlying structural brain lesions in regard to nonspecific etiology.  Left anterior stroke can also be contributing to the changes on the EEG.



