CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 25-year-old man with a history of a left parieto-occipital tumor removed at the age of 12, who now presents with recurrent left occipital seizures.  The patient subsequently found to have a small left occipital bleed.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, Depakote and phenobarbital and 2 mg of Ativan this a.m.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed continuously.  Spike detector and seizure detector were activated.  Medical staff notes and nursing staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of low amplitude beta activity admixed with theta and delta.  Delta activity is more pronounced anteriorly especially over the left hemisphere.  Additional polymorphic delta is noted over the left hemisphere.  No normal sleep architecture is observed, but periods of quiescence are noted.  On 08/23/2013 between approximately 6:50 a.m. until approximately 7:59 a.m., approximately 8 electrographic seizures were observed.  They last from about 1 minute to 2-1/2 minutes.  One more seizure is observed after Ativan administration.  The seizures started with very low amplitude fast activity over the left occipital region that rapidly spread throughout the left hemisphere, decrease in frequency and increasing in amplitude.  As the seizure progresses, frequency of rhythmic activity decreases to approximately 3 Hz and gradually stops.  Clinically seizures are associated with rhythmic lateral gaze nystagmus to the right.
FINDINGS:
Moderate diffuse background slowing.
Focal left hemispheric slowing.
Excess beta.
Multiple electrographic seizures between approximately 7:00 a.m. and 8 a.m. on 08/23/2013 that is improved with Ativan.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24-hour continuous audio/video EEG monitoring due to moderate diffuse slowing, focal left hemispheric slowing, and multiple focal electrographic seizures that occur within 1 hour at the end of the recording epoch.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction, that is in this case likely related to medication effect.  Focal left hemispheric slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction likely structural in etiology and at least partially related to postictal phenomenon.  Excessive beta could be secondary to medication effect such as benzodiazepines __________  There is an epileptogenic focus over the left occipital region and is consistent with a history of recent left occipital region bleed.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology primary team.



