REASON FOR STUDY:  Recurring jerks.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
MEDICATIONS:  Neurontin, clonazepam, Flagyl, Lexapro, doxepin, omeprazole,  aspirin, hydrochlorothiazide, metformin, tramadol, albuterol, Singulair, Zofran, triamcinolone, Cardizem, atenolol.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
HISTORY:  A 62-year-old woman with past medical history of anxiety that has been having constant jerking episodes when falling asleep of her extremities, abdomen and face that lately have worsened in frequency and have become intolerable and do not permit her to go to sleep.  She is here for classification of these episodes, rule out seizures/myoclonus versus nonepileptic spells.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  Activating procedures produced no abnormal discharges.
The patient is recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Overall, the background appears to be normal.  However, as the patient becomes drowsy, intermittent muscle artifact jerks can be seen throughout the recording, at times the EMG artifact could be noted more over the left temporalis muscle than the right.  There appears to be no preceding cortical discharge prior to this muscle artifact.  The video does not reveal clear facial jerks although the technician reports that she noticed some facial jerking irregularly. At one point, the patient does have some abdominal flexion which occurs congruously or at the same time as the muscle artifact occurred. Again, none of these artifacts have a preceding cortical discharge that could be clearly seen.
SEIZURES:  None.
HEART RATE:  66.
IMPRESSION:  Normal awake and drowsy EEG.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This is a normal awake and drowsy EEG.  No seizures were seen.  Please note that the jerking episodes described above had no clear cortical or electrographic discharge and may be muscular discharges or possible myoclonus of subcortical origin.  No clear seizures were seen.



