.
LENGTH OF RECORDING:  25 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is an 84-year-old woman with a history of seizures for approximately 1 year.  Seizures are characterized as a loss of awareness with associated rhythmic left thumb/left hand movements.  These episodes last up to 45 minutes with post-ictal period lasting for approximately 20 minutes.  No associated falls and no generalized tonic/clonic convulsions.
MEDICATIONS:  Trileptal 300 mg b.i.d., Namenda, Aricept, Synthroid, metoprolol, Lipitor, and furosemide.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well formed and modulated moderate amplitude 10 to 10.5 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During sleep the posterior dominant rhythm attenuates and theta activity becomes more prominent.  Intermittent shifting theta and delta activity is observed over the bitemporal regions.  This activity is more pronounced over the right temporal region.  A single sharp wave with after-going slow wave is captured over the right anterior temporal region with a phased reversal of F8/T4 electrodes.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation results in symmetrical occipital driving with multiple flash frequencies.  A single EKG lead demonstrates an irregular heart rate.
FINDINGS:
Shifting mild to moderate bitemporal slowing, right greater than left.  A single sharp wave with after-going slow wave over the right anterior temporal region, with phased reversal of F8/T4 electrode.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 25-minute EEG due to shifting mild to moderate intermittent bitemporal slowing and a single right anterior temporal epileptiform discharge.  Some degree of temporal slowing is considered normal in patients over the age of 65, however, this recording demonstrates a high degree of slowing.  There is a potential epileptic focus emanating from the right anterior temporal region.  Focal bitemporal slowing indicates focal cerebral dysfunction, possibly structural in etiology.



