LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  Twenty-two minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 19-year-old woman with a history of seizures since the age of 2, now presents with concern for status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include:  Lamictal and 8 mg of Ativan.
INTRODUCTION:  Condition of the recording:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background consists of diffuse rhythmic and semi-rhythmic high amplitude frontally predominant delta activity mixed with bursts of diffuse spindle-like wave forms.  No normal sleep architecture is captured.  At least 3 electrographic seizures are noted. These seizures start with approximately a 10-12 second run of fast activity most pronounced over the right occipital lead.  This activity eventually spread to the right anterior region. During this spread, rhythmic more frequency theta and delta activity are captured over the right anterior leads with some reflection over the left hemisphere.  Seizure offset is gradual.  Total seizure duration is approximately one minute.  Increase in heart rate up to 150 to 180 beats a minutes is noted during seizure.  During one of the seizures, the patient bites on the ET tube.
A single EKG lead demonstrates continued tachycardia with heart rate on average of approximately 120 beats a minute.
FINDINGS:
At least 3 electrographic seizures with right occipital onset lasting approximately 1 minute.
Runs of bilateral posterior fast activity.
Moderate to severe diffuse slowing.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal electroencephalogram due to moderate diffuse slowing, intermittent high frequency activity observed posteriorly, as well as 3 focal right hemisphere electrographic seizures with onset of right occipital leads.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific cerebral dysfunction, that in this case could partially be related to medications.  There is a seizure onset focus that is suspected to be over the right occipital region.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



