CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 25-year-old male with childhood brain tumor, status post radiation and resection.  The patient admitted on the 27th, one day after seizure with persistent, right-sided weakness.
MEDICATIONS:
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  The patient was relatively alert, but had increasing right-sided weakness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The patient seems to be a bit drowsy.  In the drowsy state, there is a low voltage 8 Hz alpha rhythm on the right.  From the left hemisphere, continue with focal slowing was identified with arrhythmic delta, a breach rhythm with higher amplitude delta and sharply contoured slowing with variable maxima, T1, T3.  There was also focal delta picked up in the left centroparietal region.  The patient does maintain an awake state during the later portions of the record, but with somewhat disorganized pattern on the right and an alpha rhythm, which reaches only 8 Hz.  There was also some shifting and slowing noted from the right hemisphere, but with much more prominent arrhythmic delta activity from the left hemisphere.  Intermittent, frontally predominant bilateral deltas identified.  In the context of a breach rhythm, there is a single left frontal sharp and slow wave complex identified.
Photic stimulation did not significantly impact the record.
Heart rate 90 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to;
Continuous focal slowing from the left hemisphere with disruption of faster frequency activity.
Sharply contoured delta in the left with variable maximum including midtemporal or posterotemporal as well as centroparietal.
Mild slowing and disorganization on the right.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports the structural or functional process on the left involving gray and white matter, and is congruent with previous brain tumor history and surgical resection.  There is a previous EEG performed in December after a seizure.  To compare these 2 records, the right hemisphere appears to be better organized today.  The left hemisphere is essentially unchanged, but these 2 EEGs may have been performed under somewhat different conditions.



