REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 63-year-old woman with a history of asthma, hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, left subarachnoid cerebral hemorrhage in 2009 with right residual weakness, __________ stroke in 2009 who presents with seizures and 2 in the ER.

MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, Ativan, atenolol, nifedipine, Bactrim, insulin, pravastatin.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while awake and lethargic.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some movement artifact seen at times.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  The patient was recorded mainly while drowsy.  There is some sleep architecture that can be seen.  Activating procedures were not performed.  Overall the background consists of delta frequency, slowing seen diffusely with some variability up on stimulation.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen frequently at 01 and at times at T5/P3.  Frequently throughout the recording at times the sharp waves become rhythmic and occurred at a frequency of 1-2 Hz and then they start and stop.
Focal slowing seen in the posterior quadrant in the area of 01/T5/P3.  This slowing at times is rhythmic but does not  clearly evolve or appear to be epileptic.
Diffuse slowing seen at a frequency of 2-4 Hz, amplitude 20-60 microvolts.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left occipital and posterior temporal parietal sharp waves as well as almost continuous focal slowing and generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the left occipital or posterior temporal parietal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral structural dysfunction in the left posterior quadrant, which may be related to the previous hemorrhage.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology and may be due at least in part to medication effect.  No seizures were seen.



