REASON FOR STUDY:  Unresponsiveness status post code.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 50-year-old woman with known thyroid cancer discovered 15 years ago with progressive dysphagia who had emergency surgery remove mass.  She became acutely bradycardic.  She had CPR started and coded for about 12 minutes.  She had a change in mental status after the code.
MEDICATIONS:  Zofran, albuterol, insulin, Ancef, sodium chloride, chlorhexidine, __________, magnesium oxide, amiodarone, Tylenol, Protonix, vitamin K, Zosyn, vancomycin.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  There was a 60 Hz artifact seen in the F1 and F2 electrodes throughout the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  There was no normal sleep architectural and no activating procedures were performed.  Overall, the background was consistent with a diffuse delta pattern at 2-4 Hz and an amplitude 20-40 microvolts.  __________ there is frontal by frontal slowing and sharp waves seen frequently throughout the recording.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Bifrontal and sometimes central sharp waves seen at CZ, F3 and F4, and at times at FP1 or FP2.
Focal slowing in the bifrontal region.
Generalized slowing as described before.
SEIZURES:  At 1:21 p.m. the EEG recording suddenly stopped and the recording restarts at 1:24 p.m.  At this point there is a clear prefrontal rhythmic discharge consistent of sharp waves maximal mainly at FP1, but at times at FP2 at a frequency of 3-4 Hz going on continuously with no clear clinical correlate.  This pattern is consistent with an electrographic seizure.  The electrographic seizure continues without stopping until about almost 19 minutes later after receiving Ativan at 1:39 p.m.  After that the EEG appears to go back to a diffusely slow background with some prefrontal slowing.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to an electrographic prefrontal maximal seizure with no clear onset seen as well as bifrontal slowing and generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals electrographic seizures which appears to be maximally in the frontal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the frontal region as well as diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology, but is likely related to the hypoxic injury.  These findings were discussed with the team and the patient will be placed on long-term monitoring.



