CLINICAL HISTORY:  45 year old man, found unresponsive with a temperature of 95.7 with a history of substance abuse, asthma, now found to have a right cerebral intraparenchymal hemorrhage with intraventricular extension and an EVD placed.  Now with left gaze deviation.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Protonix, Librium, Gentamicin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Rule out seizures
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video  EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrode.  Activating procedures were not performed.  The patient was lethargic during the examination.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow, low amplitude background with an asymmetric hemisphere amplitude and frequency.  Over the right hemisphere, there appears to be marked attenuation and lack of faster frequencies with some focal F8/T4 slowing.  Over the left hemisphere, there appears to be diffuse slowing, however, while the patient is stimulated, there appeared to be an increase of the faster frequencies and some reactivity.  No normal frontocentral beta is seen.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.  No photic stimulation or hyperventilation was performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Right hemispheric attenuation and slowing maximal at F8/T4 with no reactivity to pain.
Generalized slowing with some reactivity seen maximal at the left hemisphere.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Right hemispheric slowing maximal in the right anterior temporal region with associated loss of faster frequencies and decreased.
Generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal structure dysfunction and cortical damage over the right hemisphere seen maximally in the temporal region, which may be related at least in part to the hemorrhage.  In addition, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology and may be due at least in part to medication effect.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.



