CLINICAL HISTORY:  65 year old with recent subarachnoid and right frontal external ventricular drain and just status post coiling with follow-up EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Propofol, Keppra, Phenobarbital, Insulin, Gentamicin, Nimodipine, Lovenox, Protonix, Morphine.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video long term monitoring EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  No activation procedures were performed.  The patient was unresponsive during the recording.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm and no normal frontocentral beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture seen and no activation procedures were performed.  During the study, there is some noxious and tactile stimulation which caused no change in the frequency of the EEG.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen at T3/T5 with additional sharp waves seen at C3/T3, both of them seen intermittently.
Focal slow waves seen at F4 intermittently. Please note that no longer F4 sharp waves are seen.
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 2-70 mV.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Left midtemporal and posterotemporal as well as central parietal sharp waves in addition to focal slowing in the right frontal region.
Generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal structural dysfunction and irritability in the left hemisphere, specifically in the left posterotemporal and midtemporal region as well as the left parietal, central parietal regions.  There is also additional focal cerebral dysfunction in the right frontal region, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology, but may be related at least in part to medication effect.  No seizures were seen.  Please note the differences in this report compared to the prior report where right frontal seizures were seen and this is no longer noted and has changed.



