STUDY DATE:  01/04/2013 to 01/05/2013, for a total of 7-1/2 hours.
REASON FOR STUDY:
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 28-year-old man with a history of CAD status post percutaneous inflation in 2006, factor V deficiency, hypertension, DVT, and seizure disorder who presents with chest pain today with episodes of upper extremity generalized movements.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Keppra, lorazepam, __________, Protonix, Percocet, and Benadryl.
INTRODUCTION:  A long-term EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  The patient did unhook his electrodes at 11:20:30 p.m.  It appears that he slowly took them one by one off; however, video was continued during the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a well-defined posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 9 to 10 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is normal frontocentral beta.  The patient is recorded in wakefulness, stage I, stage II, and deeper stages of sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
Heart rate 96.
Abnormal discharges:  Intermittent focal slowing seen at T3 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 50 microvolts.
Episode at 11:55 p.m.:  The patient was noted on video to suddenly stiffen his body, stretch out his right arm, grab up to the rail of the bed, and shake and tremble rapidly, causing the entire bed to shake.  The nurse came to talk to the patient and he appeared to be unresponsive.  The patient had his head stretched backward and it was not clear if his eyes were open or closed based on the video.  The episode lasted until 11:59 p.m.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to intermittent left midtemporal focal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG revealed evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left midtemporal region, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  The episode seen on video appears to clinically have features of a nonepileptic event; however, no clear commentary can be made since there was no EEG that could be reviewed during the time of the episode.  No further episodes were captured on this day #1 of monitoring.



