CLINICAL HISTORY: 87 year old man with history of DVT, PE, hypertension, esophageal ulcer, angioplasty, that was found down confused by his son, now with a right frontal mass.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Haldol, Lorazepam, Hydralazine, Dexamethasone, Insulin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Confusion and change in mental status.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded in wakefulness, but was lethargic.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some movement artifact during the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to diffusely slow recording with a posterior dominant rhythm that at best reaches 7 Hz and is reactive to eye opening.  There is lack of normal frontal central beta seen.  The patient is only recorded in wakefulness and no activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen at C4/F4 at times in rhythmic bursts of 2 Hz consistent with periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges (PLED'S) almost continuously throughout the recording.
Focal slow waves seen at C4/F4 at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-100 mV also seen continuously throughout the recording.
Generalized slow waves at 5-7 Hz with an amplitude of 20-60 mV seen continuously throughout the recording.
SEIZURES:  During the recording at one point the rhythmic PLED'S appeared to increase in frequency and evolve to infrequency and decreasing amplitude for about 1 minute and 20 seconds.  In the video there does not appear to be a clinical correlate which is consistent with an electrographic seizure.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Right frontal central PLED'S.
One electrographic seizure.
Generalized slow waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals one single electrographic seizure coming from the right fronto-central region. In addition, there is evidence of acute structural dysfunction and irritability in the right frontal central region which is consistent with the known frontal mass.  There was also evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology and may be due, at least in part, to medication effect.



