REASON FOR STUDY:  Possible seizure.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 74-year-old woman with a right vasoganglia lesion biopsied on December 3, had on Sunday an episode of right upper extremity jerking.  She has a past medical history of diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and atrial fibrillation.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin, Decadron, phenobarbital, oxybutynin, Klonopin, ceftriaxone, Cardizem, metoprolol.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded while minimally responsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 6 to 7 Hz, which appears to be somewhat reactive to eye opening.  There is no normal frontocentral beta.  Overall, the background is diffusely slow in a theta-delta frequency and appears to be asymmetrically faster over the left hemisphere. The right hemisphere reveals focal slowing.  In addition, there is again generalized slowing maximally bifrontally.
Heart rate 84 and irregular.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal sharp waves seen occasionally at F4 while unresponsive.
Focal slow waves seen over the right hemisphere, maximal at F8/T4 at a frequency of 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 40 microvolts.
Generalized slowing at 2 to 4 Hz and an amplitude of 20 to 60 microvolts seen continuously throughout the recording, but at times maximally in the bifrontal region.
Seizures:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to right frontal focal sharp waves, in addition to right hemispheric focal slowing, maximally seen in the anterior temporal region with additional generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the right frontal region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the right hemisphere, maximal in the anterior temporal region, which is likely due to the known mass and lesion.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology.  No seizures were seen.



