CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 65-year-old woman with recent left parieto-occipital removal of lung metastasis, who now presents with change in mental status and several convulsions.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Dilantin, Depakote, phenobarbital, versed, and Decadron.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  The recording was performed continuously at the patient's bedside.  Video capability was activated.  Nursing staff notes and medical staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  There is isolated left anterior hemispheric asymmetry with slow wave forms and a high amplitude over the left hemisphere.  The background over the right hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic low-to-moderate amplitude, mixture of theta and delta activity.  The background over the left hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta mixed with continuous approximately 1 Hz semi-rhythmic and rhythmic sharp waves with after-going slow waves with maximum scalp negativity over T5 and L1 electrodes.  As the recording progresses, amplitude periodicity and frequency of the discharges becomes less pronounced.  Diffuse periods of discontinuity as well as increasing degree of bursts of diffuse beta are captured.  Occasional left posterior quadrant electrographic seizures are captured.  Frequency of these seizures decreases as the recording progresses.  A left side electrographic seizure is calculated at approximately 2:16 p.m.  Seizure starts with approximately 1 Hz rhythmic sharp waves with after-going slow waves with rapidly decrease in amplitude and evolved into the sharply contoured theta activity with embedded 2 Hz sharp waves with after-going slow waves.  This activity evolves into approximately 2.5-3 Hz sharply contoured delta activity with under-riding faster frequencies and spreads throughout the left hemisphere.  That seizure was approximately 40 seconds.  No normal sleep architecture is observed.
FINDINGS:
Occasional left posterior quadrant focal brief electrographic seizures that decrease in frequency as the recording progresses, with left __________ seizure at approximately 2:16 p.m.
Continuous left posterior quadrant rhythmic and semi-rhythmic epileptiform discharges (rather than quasi PLEDs) that decrease in frequency, amplitude, and as the recording progresses.
Moderate diffuse background slowing with period of discontinuity, degree of which fluctuates throughout the recording.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 20-hour continuous audio EEG monitoring due to occasional left posterior quadrant seizures and continuous left posterior quadrant semi-periodic and periodic epileptiform discharges that decrease in frequency and periodicity as the recording progresses.  These findings indicate underlying focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology and is consistent with this patient's history of recent tumor resection.  Diffuse background slowing indicates etiology for nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction and is consistent with this patient with a history of medication use.  Diffuse excess beta could be secondary to medication effect such as benzodiazepines and barbiturates.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.



