CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 74-year-old gentleman with history of epilepsy known for the last 6 years, who presents for followup.  He has been seizure-free for a while.
MEDICATIONS:  Carbatrol, Neurontin, Lopressor, metformin, omeprazole, atorvastatin, hydrochlorothiazide, metoprolol, aspirin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Photic stimulation was performed.  This was an awake and drowsy record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 7-7.5 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontal central beta activity which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of the posterior dominant rhythm and slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  There is 6-7 Hz diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness, which is distributed symmetrically.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in no driving response.  Heart rate was 60 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background with theta activity seen in wakefulness.
Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
There is no epileptiform activity or electrographic seizures noted during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above finding could be due to metabolic, toxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of sedating medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction or degenerative brain disease.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No epileptiform abnormalities are identified in this record.  No seizures are captured.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If clinically indicated, a repeat EEG capturing deeper stages of sleep or continuous bedside EEG monitoring may be helpful.



