CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 23-year-old female with history of body shakes for the past several days associated with right frontal headache.  There is no history of seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Tylenol with Codeine, Asthma medications as needed.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness through stage 2 sleep.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm is 9.5-10 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is presence of low-amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Stage 1 and stage 2 sleep are characterized by disappearance of alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact, as well as presence of posts vertex sharp transients, K complexes, and sleep spindles.  Hyperventilation was performed and results in diffuse slowing of the background activity intermixed with high amplitude 3 Hz delta activity lasting for 1-2 seconds.  Photic stimulation was performed and resulted in a driving response with no abnormal response.  The patient had 2 episodes of body jerks while awake during the recording without any ictal change on EEG.  Heart rate was 60 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is a normal EEG recording capturing wakefulness through stage 2 sleep.  Intermittent body jerks were captured during the recording without any ictal change on EEG.  No epileptiform abnormalities were identified in this record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Intermittent body jerks without any ictal change on EEG suggestive of these being probably subcortical in origin.  No epileptiform abnormalities were seen in this record.  This does not rule out the diagnosis of epilepsy.  If seizures are a clinical concern, a repeat EEG or a 24-hour ambulatory EEG may be helpful.



