CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 63-year-old woman with history of left parasagittal meningioma, status post resection and craniotomy with history of focal seizures with right arm trembling and no recent seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, glipizide, metformin, amiodarone, omeprazole, simvastatin, hydrochlorothiazide, and Claritin.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Photic stimulation and hyperventilation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 10.5 to 11 Hz in frequency and 40-50 microvolts in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a low amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact.  There is focal slow-wave activity seen at C3 and P3 continuously throughout the recording with a frequency of 2-3 Hz and amplitude of 30-60 microvolt with an associated increase in faster frequency consistent with a breach rhythm.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response.  Hyperventilation was performed and results in mild slowing of the background activity.  Heart rate was 80 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to left central and temporal focal slowing and breach rhythm.  No epileptiform activity was recorded during this study.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of a structural abnormality in the left hemisphere or left central dysfunction. Breach rhythm is consistent with history of craniotomy. Clinical correlation is recommended.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were clearly seen.  These does not exclude the possibility of epilepsy or of intermittent seizures.



