CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 34-year-old female, who presents with a history of generalized tonic-clonic seizures for many years.  This is a followup EEG.
MEDICATIONS:  Tegretol.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness through stage 2 sleep.  Activating procedures including hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 7-8 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is presence of low-amplitude diffuse beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  There is 6-7 Hz excess theta activity during wakefulness.  Stage 1 sleep is characterized by disappearance of the posterior dominant rhythm, slowing of the background and absence of muscle and eye blink artifact as well as the presence of vertex sharp waves and posts. Stage 2 sleep is characterized by presence of k- complexes and sleep spindles. There are occasional bursts of right temporal and central slowing, most pronounced in mid temporal region at T3 during wakefulness and sleep mixed with sharply contoured delta waves lasting for 1-3 seconds with no evolution.  During wakefulness and sleep, there are occasional bursts of generalized spike and wave discharges seen appearing with a frequency of 2.5-3 Hz, which were frontally predominant.  These occurred in bursts lasting from 1-3 seconds.  There was no clinical seizure correlate during these bursts.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and results in a symmetric driving response without any photoparoxysmal response.  Hyperventilation was performed and resulted in diffuse slowing of the background activity.  Heart rate was 72 beats per minutes.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing wakefulness through stage 2 sleep, due to:
Generalized spike and slow wave discharges seen during wakefulness and sleep with a frequency of 2.5-3 Hz with no evolution.
Disorganized background
Excess theta activity during wakefulness and slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm.
Right central and mid temporal slowing mixed with sharply contoured wave discharges.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm and excess theta activity are consistent with encephalopathy, which could be due to toxic, metabolic, infectious, medication induced, degenerative, postictal, or bilateral cerebral dysfunction. Occasional bursts of frontally predominant generalized spike and slow wave discharges and right central and temporal slowing and sharply contoured delta waves are consistent with underlying epileptogenicity with multiple foci. The generalized beta activity could be due to medication effect including benzodiazepine, barbiturate, or could be due to anxiety or hyperthyroidism. Clinical correlation and repeat EEG or prolonged EEG monitoring for further evolution is recommended.



