LENGTH OF RECORDING:  21 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:
The patient is a 71-year-old man who had an episode of loss of consciousness after a coughing spell.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  The recording was performed at the laboratory.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include amlodipine, Lantus, lovastatin and others.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of a well formed and modulated low  amplitude 10.5-11 Hz alpha activity that attenuates with eyes opening.  There is an anterior-to-posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitude anteriorly.  A faster alpha variant is occasionally observed.  During periods of sleep symmetrical vertex waves, sleep spindles and K-complexes are captured.  Additionally, brief bursts of bitemporal delta are observed during sleep as well.  Hyperventilation is performed with good effort and does not result in significant changes in background.  __________ photic stimulation results in simple driving and multiple flash frequencies.  A single EKG lead demonstrates a heart rate as low as 36 beats a minute during sleep and approximately 60 beats a minute during wakefulness.
FINDINGS:
Profound bradycardia with heart rate as low as 36 beats a minute during sleep.
Stage 2 sleep.
No epileptiform discharges.
IMPRESSION:  This is a normal awake and asleep 21 minute study.  The lack of epileptiform discharges on a routine electroencephalogram does not preclude the clinical diagnosis of epilepsy.  A significant bradycardia with heart rate of approximately 36 beats a minute is captured in a single electrocardiogram lead during sleep.  The patient was made aware of electrocardiogram findings during today's electroencephalogram and was advised to either report to the closest emergency room or his primary care physician right away today.



