LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  21 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 68-year-old man status post traumatic brain injury with resultant right temporal confusion, traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage who experienced 2  tonic-clonic convulsions last night.  The patient is currently comatose and intubated.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Ativan, and others.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to standard the 10-20  system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  The recording was performed at the bedside.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is right to left interhemispheric asymmetry.  The background over the left hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic, very well amplitude theta and delta activity admixed with prominent beta activity.  The background over the right hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic variable amplitude delta greater than theta as well as under riding faster activity admixed with moderate amplitude sharp waves with after going slow waves emanating from the right frontocentral region.  Phase reversal occurs over F8/F4/C4 electrodes.  There are several electrographic seizures throughout the recording, lasting on average approximately 1 minute.  These seizures are characterized by increase in frequency of sharp waves with after going slow waves observed over the right frontocentral region.  Seizures are characterized by a gradual increase in frequency of epileptiform discharges to approximately theta delta range and then gradually decreasing in frequency and stopping.  Additionally occasional periods of brief background discontinuity are noted.  It is not clear is these seizures have a clinical correlation; however, however on 1 occasion the EEG technologist notices the patient squints at the onset of seizure.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are not performed.
FINDINGS:
Moderate diffuse slowing.
Focal right hemispheric slowing most pronounced over the right anterior region.
Frequent right frontocentral epileptiform discharges, with phase reversal over F8/F4/C4 electrodes.
Several focal right frontocentral electrographic seizures lasting on average approximately 1 minute.
Excess beta.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 21-minute electroencephalogram due to moderate diffuse slowing, focal right hemispheric slowing, that is most pronounced over the right anterior region, frequent right frontocentral epileptiform discharges and several focal right frontocentral electrographic seizures with unclear clinical correlate.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal right hemispheric slowing indicates underlying focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural etiology and is consistent with the patient's history of traumatic brain injury.  There is an electrographic focus emanating from the right frontocentral region.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology consultant team at the time of the review.



