REASON FOR EEG:  Recent prolonged postictal state.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 62 -year-old male with hyperlipidemia, hypertension, previous left PCA stroke with some right-sided weakness, who came in with episode of multiple seizures.  EEG for evaluation of prolonged postictal state.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Trileptal, Seroquel, Plavix, Coreg, amlodipine, Lisinopril and 6 mg Ativan last night.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm that while awake reaches at best 7 Hz which is reactive to eye opening.  There is some frontocentral beta.   Activating procedures were not performed.  he patient is recorded during wakefulness and sleep.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen in wakefulness and sleep at F7/
T3 and independently at T3, sometimes with a more anterior prefrontal field.
Focal slowing at F74/ T3 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts seen intermittently.
Generalized slow waves of 5-7 Hz, amplitude of 20-60 microvolts during wakefulness.
SEIZURES:  None.
HEART RATE:  78
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left anterior temporal sharp waves and focal slowing in addition to generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the left anterior temporal and mid temporal regions.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in that region, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology but may be due at least in part to the previous stroke. Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is also nonspecific with regards to etiology but may be due at least in part to medication effect.  No seizures were seen.



