CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 50-year-old man with history of right MCA stroke and localization-related epilepsy, who presents with seizures.  He also has a history of drug and ethanol abuse.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital video EEG was performed at the bedside using standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.  This tracing captures the patient in a vague and lethargic state.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior dominant rhythm was 8.5-9 Hz in frequency seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening, well formed on the left side.  There is moderate amount of frontocentral beta.  Drowsiness and stage 2 sleep are characterized by slowing of the background, slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm, and absence of muscle and eye blink artifacts, and presence of posts and vertex sharp waves.  Continuous focal slowing of continuous focal slow waves seen at F8/T4 at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 30-60 microvolts.  Sharp waves are seen with shifting negativity at FP1/FP2/F4, which occur frequently during the recording.  There are periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges seen in the right hemisphere, maximum at right superior frontal and anterior temporal region occurring with a frequency of 0.5-1.5 Hz with no evolution.  There are excess of 7-7.5 Hz theta activity seen during short period of wakefulness.  Heart rate was 70 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing the patient at brief period of wakefulness and lethargic state due to:  One, diffuse slowing of the background.  Two, presence of sharp waves in FP1/FP2, and F8 and right periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges.  Three, almost continuous focal slowing of right temporal region.  There was no electrographic seizures during this recording.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization-related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the prefrontal region.  In addition, there is evidence of continued structural focal cerebral dysfunction in the right anterior temporal region, which has a high correlation with the lesion in that region consistent with patient's history of right middle cerebral artery stroke.  No electrographic seizures were seen.  Clinical correlation is recommended.



