CLINICAL HISTORY: 19 year old right handed female with congenital microcephaly with seizures with drop-like spells, familial congenital microcephaly.
MEDICATIONS: Lamictal
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is primarily awake, poorly interactive. Photic stimulation are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing begins, the patient is awake with primarily a pattern with generous, diffuse beta, some underlying more rhythmic 3 Hz to 4 Hz activity and intermittent, paroxysmal bursts of 11 Hz activity. In addition, there are also bursts of more sharply contoured, 5 Hz activity in the background which is bilaterally present, frontally predominant.
Photic stimulation is performed early in the record and may, in fact, accentuate some paroxysmal frontal beta and the 5 Hz theta frequency activity. Although it is difficult to completely assess the patient, there may be an 11 Hz alpha rhythm in the background versus part of the entire background. In terms of eye opening and eye closure, there is no consistent pattern that suggests an alpha rhythm but this is a difficult to evaluate, handicapped young woman.
The individual remains awake throughout much of the record with primarily a beta and theta pattern without the additional paroxysmal bursts of 5 Hz or 11 Hz activity or without so many of the additional bursts of paroxysmal activity. At the close of the record, again, paroxysmal approximately 12 Hz activity is observed in the background. The primary peak is really at 11 Hz overall and there may have been a beta buzz of 22  Hz activity just prior to the 11 Hz activity.
HR: 84bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Paucity of the normal background rhythms for a 19-year-old female.
2. Primarily a theta pattern with some beta activity.
3. What is likely a paroxysmal pattern with both 5 Hz activity and 11 Hz activity and some 22 Hz activity
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG is more compatible with a generalized mechanism for seizures. It is similar to previous studies and carries some feature similar to her siblings pattern. No clinical seizures were recorded. If drop attacks are frequent, additional EEG recording may be of use.



