CLINICAL HISTORY:   53 year old right handed man with history of hemispherectomy in 1977 and CP, as well as encephalitis, renal cell cancer, diabetes, hyperthyroid, venous insufficiency, schizoaffective disorder, depression, and suicide attempt with a history of seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, aspirin, Flomax, Ditropan, Glucophage, Latuda, Synthroid, Toprol, Trileptal, Zestoretic, Trilipix, Benadryl, and Nitrostat.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and drowsiness.  Activating procedures were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to an asymmetric posterior dominant rhythm that is best seen over the left hemisphere with a frequency that at best reaches 9 Hz and appears to be reactive to eye opening.  Over the right hemisphere sometimes there is an attenuated posterior dominant rhythm, but it cannot be clearly seen, and overall the frequency over the whole right hemisphere are attenuated and cannot be clearly seen. The patient appears to go into drowsiness.  During the recording, photic stimulation is performed and there is no abnormal discharges.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:  Generalized spike and wave with a high amplitude discharge seen maximally over the left hemisphere at F7/FP1 at a frequency of 2-2.5 Hz and an amplitude of about 35-100 mV.
The bursts last as long as 10 seconds with no clear clinical correlate.
Marked attenuation over the right hemisphere with lack of normal frequencies.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Bursts of generalized spike and waves with a left frontal predominance.
Marked attenuation of the right hemisphere.
Lack of normal frequencies.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of symptomatic generalized epilepsy.  The marked asymmetry over the right hemisphere is consistent with the known right hemispherectomy.  No seizures were seen.



