CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 36-year-old male with Lennox Gastaut syndrome on chronic static encephalopathy, previous behavioral issues in the past.  Mother reports increasing small seizures in the group home.  Recent homicidal behavior, 302 hospitalization for attempting to stab co-workers and room mate.  Impulse control disorder.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal, zonisamide and Seroquel, clorazepate.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background rhythm is somewhat slow with the posterior dominant rhythm of approximately 6 Hz.  Occasional frontal spike and slow wave complexes are noted in hyperventilation.  Following hyperventilation, intermittent frontally predominant poly spike and slow wave complexes are noted in an overall slow background.  Some of these are a little bit more maximum on the right.  As the patient transitions to drowsiness, there is an increase in background slowing.  4-5 Hz poly spike activity or spike and wave activity is noted, but some of these are discreetly somewhat more prominent in the right frontal region than the left.  Others include a burst of fast activity which is in the frontal regions at the midline and may have more of a left frontal predominance.
Vertex waves were noted in sleep.  Bursts of very low voltage frontal paroxysmal fast activity were also noted in sleep.  Some vertex waves seem to phase reverse to the right of the midline.
Photic stimulation was performed while the patient was asleep.  While there was no driving, there may have been a slight accentuation of the paroxysmal fast activity and the poly spike activity, particularly with a 17 Hz stimulation.
Heart rate 108 bpm with a rapid heart rate even in sleep.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Generalized background slowing.
Frontally predominant spike and wave and poly spike and wave activity.
Clinical correlation:  This EEG is better organized than a previous EEG recorded in 2010, but the epileptiform activity is similar.  Previous EEG monitoring in 2008 and 2010 have identified complex epileptiform activity similar to that described above.  Please refer to those reports for additional information.



