CLINICAL 40-year-old man With LD, Childhood TBI, epilepsy and recent increase In tonic clonic seizure.
MEDICATIONS: Lamictal, topiramate, trazodone, BuSpar, Ativan.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed. is an awake and asleep record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: In wakefulness, there is a 9.5 Hz, 40 microvolt dominant rhythm with a small amount of low voltage, frontocentral beta. Hyperventilation was early on in the record producing bursts of shifting slowing. This can be seen in the right or left As the patient became drowsy, there was an increase in background slowing noted.
In early drowsiness, there is a slight asymmetry with a bit more focal slowing noted on the left.
The patient is relatively drowsy during photic stimulation and the bursts of shifting slowing noted. During photic stimulation, there was a discrete, frontal, 5 Hz spike and wave complex This discharge has bifrontal representation but is maximum on the right. There is another, subtle fragment of a spike and wave discharge noted around the time of photic stimulation but not during it and after photic stimulation additional, 3 Hz spike and wave complexes were noted as the patient started to drift off to sleep.
HEART RATE: 60 bpm.
IMPRESSION: This is an abnormal EEG due to:
1. Discrete, frontally predominant 3-5 Hz spike and wave activity.
2. Shifting slowing, sometimes a bit more prominent on the left.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG Is similar to previous studies. Some EEGs have demonstrated discrete, generalized spike and wave activity. The fact that the 1 discharge is maximum the right is not necessarily clinically significant In comparison to other EEGs which have some background slowing and disorganization, there is less In the way of background disorganization noted In this d but there are bursts of shifting slowing, left more so than the right, raising the possibility of more than 1 mechanism No local epileptiform features were noted in this EEG.



