REASON FOR STUDY:  History of seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 40-year-old woman with history of HIV, seizure disorder, cocaine abuse, presented after falling and fractured her left femur.  EEG to rule out seizures.  Follow up from October 25, no new seizure activity reported.
MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using the standard 10-20 electrode placement with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while awake and drowsy.  Activating procedures included hyperventilation and photic stimulation.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a background that at best reaches a posterior dominant of 9 Hz.  However, the overall background appears to be intermixed with frontal maximal delta discharges that appear to reach all the way to the occipital region and seen intermittently and rhythmically.  In addition, at times there is less faster frequencies seen over the right hemisphere than the left in the frontal regions.  There is no normal sleep architecture.
Activating procedures, including hyperventilation, accentuates the frontal slowing which I will describe later.  Photic stimulation produces no abnormal discharges.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal slow waves seen in the prefrontal regions, mainly FP1 and PF2, almost continuously throughout the recording at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-60 mV.
At times there is also frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity seen in bursts, also noted FIRDA.
There is also some left frontal temporal slowing at F7/T3 seen intermittently at 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-60 mV.
Seizures:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to continuous prefrontal slowing, as well as some left frontal temporal slowing.  In addition, there is some intermittent frontal FIRDA activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the prefrontal regions, in addition to the left frontal temporal or anterior temporal regions, which may be related to known previous trauma.  In addition, there is evidence of frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity which is nonspecific in regards to etiology, but may be due at least in part to medication effect or metabolic encephalopathy, although these findings can be very nonspecific.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen which is different to the previous EEG which had noted some left anterior temporal or left temporal sharp waves.



