CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 34-year-old male with past history of right-sided numbness, seizures, stroke, HIV, schizophrenia, borderline personality.  Patient now had episodes occurring 8 to 10 times a week with dizziness, loss of consciousness, tonic clonic activity and confusion.
MEDICATIONS:  Risperdal, Advair, aspirin, Epzicom, Prezista and Viread.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.  This is an awake and asleep record.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In maximal wakefulness, the background EEG is appropriately organized with a 10 Hz alpha rhythm.  Central MU activity was noted, but testing was not performed to confirm this.  Hyperventilation was performed early in the record, producing some shifting slowing.   As hyperventilation continued, a burst of high amplitude rhythmic slowing from the left frontal region was identified.  No clinical correlates were noted.  This discharge was approximately 19 seconds in duration.  Of note, the burst of rhythmic slowing on the left seems to end over about 5 seconds and then a relatively normal awake pattern was noted.
In relaxed wakefulness, there is a mild degree of background slowing and as the patient transitions to drowsiness, there is very subtle underlying delta in the left hemisphere compared to the right.
Deeper stages of sleep were not achieved.
Photic stimulation was performed while the patient was awake.  Although there was a driving response, the photic stimulation seems to accentuate some underlying focal slowing at T5.
Heart rate:  66 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to:
Mild background disorganization in wakefulness.
Subtle focal slowing from the left.
Left posterior temporal slowing in photic.
Electrographic left hemisphere seizure in hyperventilation without clinical correlate.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG supports a focal mechanism for seizures for this patient. Given the electrographic seizure identified above, the patient's referring neurologist will be contacted so that additional management may be implemented.



