CLINICAL HISTORY:  54 year old male with a history of hepatitis C cirrhosis, IV drug abuse, hypertension, and epididymitis who presents with change in mental status, confused and lethargic.
MEDICATIONS:  Zosyn, Vancomycin, Protonix, Dopamine, Pyridoxine, Rifampin Dexamethasone, Acyclovir, Brinzolamide
REASON FOR EEG:  Rule out seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior and temporal electrodes and EKG electrodes.  The patient was obtunded during this study.  No activating procedures were performed
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The EEG opens to a diffuse slow background with an asymmetric pattern over each hemisphere.  The left hemisphere is mainly in the theta-delta frequencies with maximum slowing seen in the left midtemporal region.  The right hemisphere reveals a low-voltage discharge with minimal normal cortical frequencies seen, mainly in the delta frequency.
No normal posterior dominant rhythm is seen and normal frontocentral beta is absent.  At times the patient coughs and the frequencies appeared to improve to a theta pattern.  No normal sleep architecture was seen, and no activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Left hemispheric slowing maximum on the midtemporal region.
Right hemispheric attenuation.
Infrequent sharply contoured C3 sharp transients, possibly asymmetric vertex.
SEIZURES  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Left temporal slowing.
Right hemispheric attenuation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal structural dysfunction in the left hemisphere, maximum in the temporal region, which is nonspecific with regard to etiology but has a high correlation with a lesion in that region.  The right-sided attenuation may be due to cortical dysfunction sometimes seen in stroke or overlying structural lesion like a subdural hemorrhage causing decreased attenuation.  Clinical correlation was recommended.  No seizures were seen.



