LENGTH OF THE RECORDING:  23 minutes.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 55-year-old man with a history of aneurysmal surgery, left frontal stroke, hemiparesis, and seizures.  EEG is being performed to assess the patient's baseline.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications include phenobarbital, Dilantin, Prozac, and others.
CONDITION OF RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10/20 system, with additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is continuous right to left interhemispheric asymmetry with faster waveforms over the left hemisphere.  Of note, the patient is asleep throughout most of the recording.  During brief wakefulness, the posterior dominant rhythm over the left consists of moderate amplitude 9-10 Hz alpha activity. PGR No comment can be made about reactivity.  There is an anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient over the left hemisphere.  Additionally, continuous excess beta activity is captured over the left hemisphere.  The posterior dominant rhythm over the right hemisphere is not clearly visualized.  The background during maximal wakefulness over the right consists of a mixture of polymorphic alpha and theta activity.  Additional polymorphic delta activity with paucity of faster frequencies is observed during drowsiness and sleep over the right hemisphere, primarily over the right frontotemporal region.  Intermittent moderate to high amplitude sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves are captured over the right anterior temporal region.  Phase reversal occurs over F8/T4 electrodes.  Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation results in no additional abnormalities.
FINDINGS:
Continuous moderate right hemispheric slowing, most pronounced over the right frontotemporal region.
Excess beta activity observed over the left hemisphere.
Suspected breach artifact over the left hemisphere.
Intermittent sharp waves with aftergoing slow waves over the right anterior temporal region, with phase reversal over F8/T4 electrodes.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal, mostly asleep, very briefly awake EEG due to continuous focal right hemispheric slowing, that is most pronounced over the right frontotemporal region, and intermittent epileptiform discharges over the right anterior temporal region.  These findings indicate likely underlying focal cerebral dysfunction that carries increased epileptogenic potential.  Excess beta observed over the left hemisphere could be secondary to the medication effect such as benzodiazepines or barbiturates. Breach effect could be secondary to a skull defect. Breach effect over that region.



