CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 28-year-old woman with epilepsy, seizure free for perhaps 9 years.  Patient had an unusual event on the 27th with involuntary jerking of the upper extremities without loss of consciousness followed by neck ache and headache.  Found to have a right vertebral artery dissection.
MEDICATIONS:  Lamictal, heparin, Protonix.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were completed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In wakefulness, the background EEG is well organized.  There is a 10.7-Hz alpha rhythm.  There is focal slowing noted in the right mid-to-posterior temporal region.  Hyperventilation was performed with good effort, producing rhythmic, high-amplitude slowing.  There were rare bursts of paroxysmal slowing, but no definitive 3-Hz spike and wave slowing noted with hyperventilation.  Drowsiness is characterized by an increase in rhythmicity of the background.  The focal slowing in the right posterior quadrant was less prominent as the patient became drowsy.
Photic stimulation elicited a driving response with some lambda as well.  There was a suggestion of a photoparoxysmal response with the 11-Hz stimulation and very subtle spike and wave activity elicited bilaterally with 15-Hz stimulation.  These were discrete bursts of 5-Hz spike and wave activity at 15 and then some paroxysmal changes again at 17 Hz stimuli with spike and wave activity.
Heart rate 84 bpm.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal electroencephalogram due to:
Discrete 3- to 5-Hz spike and wave activity noted with photic stimulation at faster flash frequencies.
Focal slowing noted from the right mid-to-posterior temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The spike and wave activity has been noted in this patient's many previous EEGs.  Compared to previous studies, this EEG seems to have a little less in the way of spike and wave activity.  The focal slowing is congruent with the recent strip.



