CLINICAL HISTORY: 89 year old woman with large left meningioma, recent
craniotomy, evaluate for subclinical seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Keppra
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20
system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing begins, there is a 7.5 Hz alpha
rhythm identified more so on the right than the left. There is an asymmetry with more of
a suppressed pattern on the left compared to the right but this waxes and wanes. In the
overnight sleep section of the record, there are some occasional sharp waves noted on
the left. There are also some bilateral bifrontal sharp waves noted in sleep with almost
a metabolic appearance.
As the recording continues, there are more triphasic wave forms observed in the
overnight sleep record, but by 5 a.m. these seem to have resolved. On the morning of
the 8th, the background EEG is quite well organized but occasional left frontal sharp
waves are noted.
In addition, again intermittently, there are both bursts of bifrontal sharp waves, triphasic
waves. and left temporal sharp waves. These do not appear to be associated with a
change in the patient's clinical status. These bursts are not associated with defined
clinical changes in the patient.
By 1:55, the EEG is now better organized. At 2:11, the bifrontal sharp waves appear.
They appear in paroxysmal bursts with a background slowing almost as if it is a
metabolic pattern.
There is no baseline for this long-term EEG monitoring session.
HR: 70 to 90 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. Background slowing.
2. Focal slowing from the left temporal region which seems to be improving over time.
3. Triphasic waves.
4. Bursts of bifrontal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG suggests more than one process. The first is a
postoperative process which gets better over time in terms of focal slowing. Sharp
waves on the left are anticipated following craniotomy. The paroxysmal bursts both
triphasic waves and bilateral sharp waves may be a metabolic phenomenon or part of
her underlying dementia.



