LENGTH OF RECORDING:  Nearly 21 minutes.
.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 42-year-old woman with a history of seizures.  She has been seizure-free since August 2012.  Over the past 3 weeks the patient has been having issues with depth perception, stumbling backward, falls, vertigo and slurred speech.  A pacemaker was inserted in 2003.
MEDICATIONS:  Her medications include Dilantin, Topamax, Neurontin, morphine, atenolol, and others.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and single EKG lead. Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation  was performed
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  During maximal wakefulness the posterior dominant rhythm reaches 8.5 Hz, alpha activity that attenuates with eye opening.  The anterior to posterior frequency gradient is weak.  Additionally, polymorphic theta activity is captured.  Drowsiness is characterized by the attenuation of the posterior dominant rhythm and bursts of theta and delta activity.  Intermittent polymorphic theta and delta activity are captured over the bitemporal regions, left greater than right.  This activity is independent from each other.  Hyperventilation is not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation results in symmetrical occipital driving at multiple flash frequencies.
FINDINGS:
Mild diffuse slowing.
Independent left greater than right, mild to moderate focal temporal slowing.
No stage 2 sleep.
No epileptiform discharges.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal awake and drowsy 21 minute EEG due to mild diffuse slowing, intermittent bitemporal mild to moderate focal slowing, left greater than right.  Diffuse cerebral slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific cerebral dysfunction.   Focal bitemporal slowing is suggestive of underlying focal cerebral dysfunction, possible structural in etiology.  No epileptiform discharges were captured, however, the patient's sleep was not recorded.  If clinical indication for seizures persists, a repeat study with stage 2 sleep may be of benefit.



