CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 65-year-old man with a history of a MCA stroke and seizures, as well as liver failure who now presents with a change in mental status.
MEDICATIONS:  Potassium, propranolol, rifaximin, lisinopril, Lasix, Protonix, Lovenox, aspirin, Thiamine, Keppra, Zonisamide, spironolactone, and risperidone.
CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single lead EKG lead.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Photic stimulation was performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORDING:  There is no clear posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background consists of a mixture of polymorphic theta and delta.  Additional moderate amplitude frontally predominant intermittent rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA) is observed.  During sleep the degree of slowing increases, occasionally.  The discontinuity is observed, and the sleep spindles are noted.  There is paucity of faster frequencies over the left hemisphere.  Four seizures were observed.  The seizures occurred at 12:23:01 p.m., 12:26 p.m., 12:45:18 p.m., and 12:48:23 p.m.  The longest seizure duration was approximately 80 seconds.  The seizures start with lower amplitude fast activity over the left  occipital region.  This activity rapidly increases in amplitude and becomes more sharply contoured and rhythmic.  As seizure evolves additional rhythmic sharply contoured delta activity is observed over the left frontal central region with significant reflection over the rest of the brain.  As the seizure progresses left occipital activity decreases in frequency and increases in amplitude.  Clinically, the patient is unable to answer questions or follow commands during the seizure.  He repeatedly repeats the word "yeah" when asked to follow commands or answer questions.  Hyperventilation was not performed.  Stepped photic stimulation does not result in additional abnormalities.
FINDINGS:
Moderate diffuse slowing.
Moderate focal left hemispheric slowing.
Electrographic seizures, left occipital onset, up to 80 seconds in duration, occurring in clusters of 2.
FIRDA.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 42 minute EEG due to moderate diffuse slowing that is more pronounced over the left hemisphere, and 4 focal electrographic seizures of left occipital onset.  Diffuse slowing indicates etiologically nonspecific diffuse cerebral dysfunction.  Focal left hemispheric slowing and focal left occipital onset seizures indicate focal cerebral dysfunction, likely structural in etiology, and is consistent with the patient's history of a left hemispheric stroke.  FIRDA could be seen in encephalopathy, increased intracranial pressure and white matter lesions.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology Team at the time of the review.



