TYPE OF STUDY:  Routine EEG.
DIAGNOSES:  Memory problems, forgetfulness, and agitation.
HISTORY:  This is a 59-year-old right-handed woman with past medical history significant for dementia and asthma, who presents for worsening of forgetfulness and agitation.
INTRODUCTION:  A digital EEG was performed in the lab using the standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to 1 channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  These tracing captures wakefulness through short period of drowsiness.  In the most alert state, the alpha rhythm is 9 to 9.5 hertz in frequency, 30-40 microvolts in amplitude, seen in the occipital region, which attenuates with eye opening.  There is a small amount of low amplitude frontocentral beta activity, which is distributed symmetrically.  Drowsiness is characterized by disappearance of the alpha rhythm, slowing of the background, and absence of muscle and eye-blink artifacts.  There are intermittent periods of bitemporal slowing at F7/T3 and F8/T4 during wakefulness and short period of drowsiness consisting of 3 hertz delta frequency, 50-60 microvolt in amplitude lasting 1-2 seconds.  Hyperventilation resulted in slowing seen in most cerebral hemispheres.  Photic stimulation was performed at multiple fresh frequencies and resulting in a driving response.  Heart rate was 70-80 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG due to bitemporal slowing during wakefulness and short period of drowsiness.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  The above findings are suggestive of bilateral structural abnormalities or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  Other causes included toxic metabolic or infectious encephalopathy, or degenerative causes.  There were no epileptiform abnormalities or seizures noted during this study.  The abscess of epileptiform abnormalities does not exclude to possibility of epilepsy or intermittent seizures.  If seizure remains a clinical concern, a repeat EEG capturing either stages of sleep or a 24-hour ambulatory EEG monitoring may be helpful.



