CLINICAL HISTORY:  56-year-old man with longstanding history of medically refractory epilepsy, currently admitted for differential diagnosis of his events as well as adjustment of his antiepileptic medications.
MEDICATIONS:  Current medications Tegretol extended release 600 mg twice a day, Abilify and others.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording is performed utilizing the standard 10/20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single EKG lead.   Hyperventilation and photic stimulation are performed.  The recording was reviewed at least once during the 24-hour period by the attending neurologist.  The patient was equipped with an event button.  Nursing staff notes and medical staff notes were reviewed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The posterior dominant rhythm consists of low amplitude 9-10 Hz alpha activity that accentuates with eyes opening.  There is anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient with faster frequencies at lower amplitudes anteriorly.  During sleep, symmetrical sleep spindles systems in the vertex phase are noted.  Continuous polymorphic theta activity sharply contoured is noted over the right temporal region.  Additional rounds of somewhat monomorphic theta activity is noted in the bifrontal EEG leads.  Independent bilateral anterior temporal sharp waves with after going slow waves are observed.  They occur much more frequently over the right.  Phase reversal occurs over the F8/T2 and F7/T1 electrodes.
A single electrographic seizure is captured.  It occurs out of stage 2 sleep.  It is characterized by sudden diffuse voltage attenuation and appearance of fast activity especially in frontal leads.  After 6 seconds rhythmic delta activity is noted over the right anterior temporal region.  Similar activity is seen observed over the anterior left temporal region.  This rhythmic activity lasts approximately 20 seconds followed afterwards by diffuse delta activity that is prolonged.  Total duration of seizure appears to be approximately 2-1/2 minutes.  Clinically, the patient appears to wake up and have worsening of dystonic posturing of his right upper extremity as well as what appears to be head deviation possibly toward the right.  The video quality is not very clear.  The patient stays still until nearly the end of the seizure.  The seizure starts at 7:44:48 p.m.  The video EEG does not demonstrate patient pushing either event button or nursing call button.  Upon questioning the patient about the seizure the next day, the patient reported that he had a seizure on 08/06/2013 although he could not elaborate more about the timing of his seizure or what occurred during seizure.
FINDINGS:
Continuous mild-to-moderate right anterior temporal slowing to occasional independent bilateral anterior temporal sharp waves with after going slow waves, right greater than left, with phase reversal over after F8/T2 and F7/T1 electrodes.
A single electrographic seizure of unclear lateralization or localization is captured. Seizure duration is approximately 2-1/2 minutes.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal 24-hour continuous audio video EEG monitoring, due to continuous mild-to-moderate right anterior temporal focal slowing, independent bilateral anterior temporal right greater than left epileptiform discharges and a single 2-1/2 minute seizure of unclear lateralization or localization, likely neocortical in onset.  These findings indicate focal cerebral dysfunction that is bitemporal in origin more so over the right anterior temporal region.



