CLINICAL HISTORY:  30 year old right handed male with history of gunshot wound to the head and seizures until 2006, presents status post cranioplasty on January 19, had a witnessed seizure with the head turned to the left, eyes deviated for 1 minute.  The patient states he felt like he was shivering prior to the seizure.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, Baclofen, Dantrolene, Morphine.
REASON FOR EEG:  Seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single-lead EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness and sleep.  No activating procedures were performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a posterior dominant rhythm of 10, which is better seen over the left hemisphere which appears to be reactive to eye opening.  There is a normal amount of frontocentral beta, except there is a slight asymmetry in the amplitude of the beta which appears to be most decreased over the right hemisphere.  Some normal patterns of stage 1 sleep were seen.  No activating procedures were performed.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal slow waves seen continuously over the right hemisphere maximally over the parietal (P4) region at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and an amplitude of 20-60 mV.  There also appears to be a decrease in the amplitude of the faster frequencies over this region.
Focal slow waves seen at T3 intermittently at a frequency of 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-60 mV.  Two of these patterns had a slightly sharply contoured appearance, but did not appear to be clearly pathologic or epileptiform.
SEIZURES:    None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Right hemisphere focal slow waves maximal in the parietal region with additional decreased amplitude in the faster frequencies.
Focal slow waves intermittently seen in the left midtemporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG reveals evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the right hemisphere, maximal in the parietal region which is consistent with the known injury and lesion in that region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal cerebral dysfunction in the left midtemporal region, which is nonspecific with regards to etiology.  No seizures or epileptiform discharges were seen



