CLINICAL HISTORY:  62 year old woman presents status post V-tach code for 15 minutes and an episode of pain then loss of consciousness and had the code, then noted to have generalized tonic/clonic activity on the CT scan that stabilized and seized again followed by 12 mg of Ativan.  EEG to follow up due to eye movements during neuro exam post-suction.
MEDICATIONS:  Albuterol, Hydralazine, Metoprolol, Lovenox, Pantoprazole, Phenytoin.
REASON FOR STUDY:  History of seizures.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in lab using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and EKG electrodes.  The patient was recorded during wakefulness.  No activating procedures were performed, although noxious stimulation was administered.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background that, at best, reaches 6 Hz.  During the recording, there was noxious stimuli performed to the patient which would increase the frequency of the recording for about 2 to 3 seconds after stimuli.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Focal sharp waves seen at P4 and T6 occasionally throughout the recording.  At times the field appears to be large and appears to spread somewhat to the posterior side to the left occipital region, but mainly all the sharp waves remain in that right posterior quadrant.
Generalized slow waves at 2 to 4 Hz, seen continuously throughout the recording.  In addition, there are episodes of diffuse attenuation seen while the patient is awake.
SEIZURES:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to:
Focal sharp waves in the right posterior quadrant.
Generalized slow waves with intermittent periods of attenuation.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with diffuse cortical dysfunction and injury, which is consistent with the known hypoxic injury.  In addition, there is evidence of right posterior quadrant irritability which has a high likelihood of seizures arising from that region.  No seizures wee seen during the recording.  Lastly, during the stimulation the patient's frequency appeared to improve, which suggests a somewhat more favorable prognosis.



