CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 39-year-old right-handed gentleman who presents with history of generalized tonic-clonic seizures.  Past medical history is significant for posttraumatic epilepsy and HIV infection.
MEDICATIONS:  Versed at and Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the bedside using standard international 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulations are performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, there is a slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm consisting of 7-7.5 Hz frequency activity.  There is excess 5-6 Hz theta activity during short periods of wakefulness.  There is low amplitude, generalized beta activity throughout the recording.  There are almost continuous bifrontal sharply contoured delta activity with a frequency of 2-3.5 Hz.  At times associated with occasional sharp and slow wave activity with no evolution.  There is also almost continuous delta activity noted in right temporal region.  Stage 1 sleep was seen as evidenced by vertex waves and posts.  Stage 2 sleep was seen as evidenced by sleep spindles and K complexes.  The heart rate was 80 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Diffuse slowing of the background and posterior dominant rhythm.
Bifrontal slowing almost continuously with sharply contoured configurations.
Occasional bifrontal sharp and slow waves activities with no evolution.
Right temporal slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Diffuse slowing and slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm are suggestive of metabolic toxic, anoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to the effect of medications or bilateral cerebral dysfunction.  Continuous slowing of bifrontal region is consistent with structural lesions in these regions.  The presence of sharp and slow waves is suggestive of underlying epileptogenicity.  Continuous slowing of temporal region is also consistent with a structural lesions in this area.  Generalized beta activity could be due to the effect of sedating medications including benzodiazepine or barbiturate or it can be seen in anxiety or hyperthyroidism.  Clinical correlation is recommended.  No seizures were captured during this recording.



