CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 71-year-old woman with a history of cryptococcal meningitis who remains in unexplained coma.  An EEG is performed to rule out status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS:  Lopressor, prednisone, Lovenox, metoprolol, and Protonix. The patient is not getting Versed.
INTRODUCTION:  The recording was performed according to standard 10/20 system with additional T1 and T2 electrodes and a single-EKG lead.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is no posterior dominant rhythm and no anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background consists of approximately 3 second bursts of variable amplitude polymorphic delta activity.  Bursts of activity are generally poorly formed over the right.  Inter-burst interval last approximately 4-7 seconds on average, thus making burst suppression ratio approximately 1:1 to 1:3.  No normal sleep architecture is captured.  Independent bursts of polymorphic sharply contoured fast activity are captured over the left posterior temporal/posterior quadrant.  Four electrographic seizures are captured.  These seizures all differ electrographically.  The seizures occurred at approximately 11:48 a.m., 11:51 a.m., 12:03 p.m., and 12:38, and last approximately 1 minute 39 seconds, 1 minute 23 seconds, 1 minute 15 seconds, and approximately 3 minutes and 16 seconds, respectively.  First electrographic seizure starts with moderate amplitude sharply contoured fast activity emanating from the left posterior temporal region.  This activity rapidly evolves into approximately 2.5 Hz rhythmic delta that increases in amplitude and decreases in frequency and spreads to the bilateral occipital region.
Seizure number 2 starts over the left lateral leads either over the left posterior temporal region or left anterior temple region.  Seizure starts with a low amplitude discrete spikes with after-going slow waves that rapidly increase in frequency into the alpha range (approximately 11 Hz activity) and spread throughout the left temporal region and bilateral occipital regions.  This activity gradually decreases in frequency and increases in amplitude, and spreads throughout the left hemisphere.  By the end of the seizure, the seizure is characterized by approximately 1 Hz 0.3 second bursts of moderate amplitude, rhythmic, alpha activity.
Seizure number 3 is similar in appearance and evolution to seizure number 2, however, it starts over the right temporal region.
Seizure number 4 appears to start over the right anterior temporal/mid temporal region.  It starts with a 5 Hz small amplitude sharp waves with after-going slow waves that rapidly decrease in frequency.  As the seizure progresses it appears to stop over the right temporal region and start over the left posterior temporal region.  As the seizure progresses it is similar in appearance to seizure number 1.
There is no clear clinical correlation with any of the patient's seizures.  There is no clear reactivity to either noxious, tactile, or verbal stimuli.  An irregular heart rate is noted in the single EKG lead.
FINDINGS:
Burst suppression, with burst suppression ratio of approximately 1:1 up to 1:3.
Near lack of clear bursts over the right temporal region.
Four discrete electrographic seizures that differ in appearance and emanate from either left posterior temporal region, left anterior temporal region, and right anterior temporal region.
No clear evidence of reactivity.
IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal nearly 24-minute coma EEG due to  1:1 to 1:3 burst suppression, poorly formed bursts over the right temporal region, and 4 discrete electrographic seizures that differ electrographically and that arise from at least 3 distinct cerebral regions.  These findings indicate significant cerebral dysfunction  and if the patient is not sedative medications indicate a poor prognosis of a full neurological recovery.  These findings were conveyed to the Neurology consultant team at that time of the review.  The patient will be converted to the long term monitoring.



