CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 54-year-old gentleman with history of lung cancer and brain metastasis, who presents with altered mental status and several episodes of seizures with focality.
MEDICATIONS:  Depakote, Keppra, Versed.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in ICU setting using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the comatose state, initially there were right periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges with a frequency of 1-2 Hz followed be frequent electrographic seizures characterized by 5-6 Hz sharply contoured theta activity with highest voltage in right parietal and temporal region intermixed with spike and slow wave discharges with evolution into 3 Hz sharply contoured delta activity.  They were spreading to the left cerebral hemispheres.  The above mentioned seizures activity was intermixed with right PLEDs during this recording.  This pattern continued every 3-10 seconds, lasting for up to 40 seconds.  The frequency of electrographic seizure were diminished after administration of Versed.  The background activity was low and attenuated in theta and delta range.  No clinical changes are reported with these electrographic seizures.  Heart rate was 60-90 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording capturing the patient in a comatose state due to:
Partial nonconvulsive status epilepticus with seizures originating from the right temporoparietal region.
Right periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges.
Diffuse slowing of background activity.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Frequent seizures are due to the increased hyperexcitability of the underlying brain in the right cerebral hemispheres and are consistent with partial nonconvulsive status epilepticus.  Diffuse slowing of the background activity could be seen in severe toxic, metabolic, anoxic, or infectious encephalopathy.  Alternatively, it could be due to bilateral cerebral dysfunction or the effect of medications. Right hemispheric PLEDs are suggestive of underlying epileptogenicity and could be due to underlying structural lesion such as due tumor in this case.  Clinical correlation and LTM are recommended.



