CLINICAL HISTORY:  This is a 52-year-old right-handed female with history of childhood epilepsy whose last seizure was at age 17 with a past medical history of congenital hydrocephalus with right hemispheric shunt, status post craniotomy on the right side.
MEDICATIONS:  Carbatrol and gabapentin.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using a standard 10-20 system of electrode placement in addition to one channel of EKG monitoring.  Hyperventilation and photic stimulation were performed.  This tracing captures wakefulness and drowsiness.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  In the most alert state, the posterior rhythm was slow in 7.5-8 Hz in frequency and 40-45 microvolts in amplitude seen in the occipital region, which attenuates somehow with eye opening.  There was diffuse theta activity seen during wakefulness most pronounced on the right side, 5-6 Hz in frequency.  Drowsiness was characterized by slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm, absence of motion and eye blink artifact.  There was breach rhythm seen in the right cerebral hemisphere most pronounced in the right posterior quadrant at times with occasional sharply contoured features.  There were frequent bursts of polymorphic theta and delta activity seen at bifrontal region most pronounced in superior frontal areas at F3 and F4 lasting 1-2 seconds.  There were also occasional sharp waves seen arising from the right temporal regions at T4/T6 during wakefulness without evolution.  There were rare epileptiform discharges arising from left posterior quadrant with no evolution. Photic stimulation was performed at multiple flash frequencies and resulted in no driving response.  Heart rate was 60 beats per minute and regular.
IMPRESSION:  This is an abnormal EEG recording due to:
Generalized slowing of background activity and slowing of the posterior dominant rhythm during wakefulness, most pronounced on the right side.
Breach rhythm in the right posterior quadrant region.
Intermittent polymorphic delta and theta activity at times with sharply contoured features in frontotemporal regions bilaterally.
Occasional sharp waves seen arising from the right temporal region and rarely from left temporal region.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  Generalized slowing of the background activity and posterior rhythm (most pronounced in the right cerebral hemisphere) during wakefulness could be due to toxic, metabolic, or infectious encephalopathy.  It could also be due to sedating medication or bilateral cerebral dysfunction with structural lesion in the right cerebral hemisphere.  Breach rhythm is consistent with patient's history of craniotomy.  Occasional polymorphic theta and delta activity seen in bifrontal region and right posterior quadrant are suggestive of an underlying structural abnormality in the subcortical white matter in this regions.  The sharp waves seen arising from the right temporal region and rarely in left posterior quadrant region are suggestive of epileptogenicity of the temporal region in these areas. Clinical correlation is recommended.



