CLINICAL HISTORY:  This patient is a 32-year-old woman with cerebral palsy, accompanied by a caregiver.  The patient has had increasing seizures since January, hospitalized in area.  Eight seizures on the 19th, characterized by generalized tonic-clonic, staring.  These may occur out of sleep, in wakefulness has staring spells and premenstrual epilepsy.
MEDICATIONS:  Vimpat, Dilantin, phenobarbital, p.r.n. Valium.
INTRODUCTION:  Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using the standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG.  Photic stimulation was completed.  Hyperventilation was not possible.  The patient was recorded in her specialized wheelchair.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The background EEG is markedly abnormal.  It lacks the normal developmental milestones for an adult of this age.  The background includes an occipitally predominant spike, which can be maximal on the left or right.  There is a suggestion at times of almost an alpha rhythm on the right when the left is demonstrating slower spike and wave activity, although the alpha frequency on the right may be a harmonic of the activity on the left.  Fast activity accompanies the occipitally predominant spike and wave activity.  The overall background is somewhat chaotic, with mixed-frequency arrhythmic delta and more rhythmic 4-5 Hz theta noted.  Bursts of paroxysmal fast activity are noted in the frontocentral region.
Spontaneous arousals were noted in the background, with the appearance of muscle artifact.  With these spontaneous arousals the patient looks about and the epileptiform activity abates.  Then, in relaxed wakefulness there is higher-amplitude occipitally predominant paroxysmal theta, some of which is sharply contoured and some of which has a more clear either fast activity in the right occipital region or a spike in the left occipital posterior temporal region.  As the patient transitions into sleep there are vertex waves, but again central paroxysmal fast activity was noted.  The patient transitions in and out of sleep.  There are some frontally predominant triangular-shaped waveforms noted as the patient transitions in and out of sleep, but the vast majority of the sharp waves is occipitally predominant in this EEG.
Photic stimulation did not clearly activate the record, although there was abundant epileptiform activity noted during photic stimulation.
Heart rate was 90 beats per minute.
IMPRESSION:  This is a markedly abnormal EEG due to
Paucity of normal adult waveforms.
Occipitally predominant epileptiform activity, primarily on the left.
Paroxysmal rhythmic theta frequency activity of 5-6 Hz.
Rare triangular-shaped frontal sharp waves.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG differs from a previous study of October 13, 2010, in that there is more significant epileptiform activity in the occipital regions.  The paroxysmal fast activity was not noted, but the paroxysmal theta was previously identified.
These findings may be correlated with imaging and clinical history.  Given the abundance of epileptiform activity noted in both EEGs, the two studies may represent the depth of epileptiform pathology for this complex patient.



