CLINICAL HISTORY: 46-year old right-handed woman with a history of epilepsy,
patient avoided anesthesia medication and had 4 seizures today with persistent
postictal encephalopathy.
MEDICATIONS: Ativan
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed in the lab using standard 10-20
system of electrode placement with 1 channel EKG. The recording is initiated within
hours of the patient's most recent seizure.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing opens the background EEG is slow
and disorganized with a dynamic pattern at times, a theta frequency pattern and at
times a pattern disrupted by irregular delta. Beta spindles are observed. In addition, in
the transition to beta spindles there is a suggestion of a right centrotemporal sharp
wave as well as some shifting arrhythmic delta activity. There is also wicket and some
eye artifact on the left. The patient transitions in and out of stage 2 sleep which
produces no artifact.
Photic stimulation is performed towards the end of the record. During photic stimulation
a seizure is observed with the appearance of rhythmic theta frequency activity from the
right centrotemporal region. This occurs during the 3Hz photic stimulation and stops
and starts and then builds up again with alpha and then theta frequency activity. This
activity goes on to show additional frequency evolution. There is some 5 Hz stimulation
and by the end of the 7 Hz stimulation the technologist has determined that the patient
has had a complex partial seizure. Throughout the 5 Hz frequency stimulation, the
activity continues to evolve, maximum in the right temporal region with a generous field
of spread slowing to beta frequency activity. Between the 5Hz and 7Hz stimulation, the
patient's shifts her head to the right producing artifact.
The seizure begins at 15:09:43 and ends at 15:01 :40. It is essentially 1 minute in
duration with paroxysmal slow sharp waves in the right centrotemporal region with a
generous field of spread. The technologist asked the patient "where are you?" as soon
as the seizure is over and the patient replies in the hospital.
HR: Increases during the seizure from approximately 90 bpm to 120 bpm. The heart
rate remains elevated afterwards.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Right temporal complex partial seizure of 1 minute duration characterized by confusion
and head turning from side-to-side at least later on in the seizure.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: Interictal epileptiform features were actually quite subtle
for this patient. Because of the subtle nature of this patient's nature, ongoing monitoring
and observation is recommended.




