
CLINICAL HISTORY:  The patient is a 46-year-old woman, admitted with increasing seizure frequency.  Her seizures are felt to be secondary to AVM.

MEDICATIONS:  Dilantin and Keppra.

CONDITION OF THE RECORDING:  The recording was performed according to the standard 10-20 system with an additional T1 and T2 electrode and a single EKG lead.  Seizure detection software was activated.  Nursing notes and medical staff notes were reviewed.

DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  There is significant right to left interhemispheric asymmetry, with slower waveforms over the left hemisphere.  During maximal wakefulness, the background over the right hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic low to moderate amplitude theta and delta without expected posterior dominant rhythm or anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient.  The background over the left hemisphere consists of a mixture of polymorphic low to moderate amplitude theta and delta activity with additional polymorphic delta over the right temporal region.  No posterior dominant rhythm or anterior to posterior frequency amplitude gradient is observed over the left hemisphere.  During sleep, sleep spindle-like complexes are captured.  Continuous moderate amplitude sharp waves with after-going slow waves are captured over the left posterior temporal region.  Intermittently throughout the recording, these discharges occur rhythmically at approximately 1 to 2 Hz and correspond to periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges.  Approximately 8 electrographic seizures are captured.  They start with increasing frequency epileptiform discharges, and rapidly evolve into rhythmic theta and later alpha, most prominent over the left posterior quadrant.  As seizure progresses, these discharges spread throughout the left hemisphere and decrease in frequency to about 3.5 Hz delta range.  These seizures last approximately 3 to 4 minutes.  There is no clinical correlate that is evident from the video review.  From approximately 4 p.m. until approximately 5:30 p.m., several leads are intermittently disconnected.  This limits interpretation of the EEG during that time period.

FINDINGS:
1. Focal left hemispheric slowing.
2. Frequent left posterior quadrant epileptiform discharges that intermittently organize into 1 to 2 Hz PLEDS.
3. Approximately 8 electrographic seizures that start over the left posterior quadrant and spread throughout the left hemisphere.  These seizures do not have a clear clinical correlate.

IMPRESSION:  This is a very abnormal 24-hour continuous audio-video EEG due to:
1. Moderate diffuse slowing and disorganization.
2. Focal left hemispheric slowing.
3. Frequent left posterior quadrant epileptiform discharges that are frequently periodic.
4. Approximately 8 electrographic seizures lasting 3 to 4 minutes with onset over the left posterior quadrant.

Diffuse slowing indicates nonspecific cerebral dysfunction that in this case could partially be related to the medication effect.  Focal left hemispheric slowing and epileptiform discharges indicate structural pathology over that region that has high epileptogenic potential.  There is an epileptogenic focus over the left posterior quadrant.  When compared to the EEG from the prior 24 hours, there has been no significant change in the degree of the background slowing or frequency of seizures or epileptiform discharges.  These findings were conveyed to the primary team.






