REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 61-year-old man with history of alcohol abuse and new onset focal seizures.
MEDICATIONS:  Phenobarbital, Keppra, Ativan, and Serax.
INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed from October 22, 2012 to October 23, 2012 for evaluation for 24 hours using the 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while slightly stuporous.  No activating procedures were performed.  Continuous spike wave detection, as well as seizure detection software, in addition to patient's alarms and nurses notes were used to review the EEG.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  The video was not focused on the patient for the majority of the study.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record still reveals a diffuse slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm with frontal central beta.  There is no normal sleep/wake activity.  No activating procedures were performed.
Overall there is diffuse delta slowing that at times has an overriding frontal maximal beta that starts and stops and appears to be related to stimulation.  The EEG does appear to reactive also with stimulation.
Abnormal discharges:
Focal sharp waves seen periodically at F7/T3, at times moving more centrally, but as the EEG has gone along they appear to settle more over the temporal and sometimes posterior temporal region.  It appears that the beginning phase of the sharp waves is more frontal and moves more posteriorly.  These are occurring at about 1-2 Hz continuously and at times appear more blunted and morphologically and sometimes more sharp.  Overall they appear to be less polyphasic and more blunted.
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz with an amplitude of 20-40 mV seen continuously throughout the recording.
Seizures:  None noted.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left hemisphere maximal temporal with some central component PLEDs, as well as generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the left frontal central region.  In addition there is evidence of acute dysfunction and irritability in the same region.  Lastly, there is evidence of diffuse cerebral dysfunction, which is nonspecific in regards to etiology and may be due at least in part to medication effect.  No seizures were seen in the last 24 hours.



