CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 61-year-old woman with a right PCA infarct with ischemia involving the anterior temporal structures with status epilepticus.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, ?others, Ativan, Etomidate.
INTRODUCTION: Continuous video EEG is performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. At least in the initial portions of the record, where clinical comments are available, the patient is described as clinically seizing with involuntary movements of the left hand.  She is intubated and poorly responsive.  In the later portions of the record, clinical correlates of the seizures include subtle jerking of the left hand against the bed rail and subtle movements of the patient’s head.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: This EEG demonstrates ongoing, repetitive seizures emanating from the right hemisphere.  The seizures start as the EEG opens with sharply contoured theta frequency activity and sharp waves maximum from the right frontotemporal region with clear frequency evolution.  The seizures are approximately 45 seconds, but actual seizure onset and off set is difficult and seizures occur within a minute at the end of the first seizure.  In the more vigorous seizures, the patient has some movement of the left foot.  In some of them, there is simply tremulousness of the left.  As the recording continues, while there is no mention of a change in medications for this patient, the background becomes a bit more discontinuous and a bit more suppressed.  There is ongoing epileptiform activity, however, with fast activity and sharp waves seen in what is otherwise a somewhat suboptimal EEG from a technical perspective with some impedance artifact, ongoing epileptiform discharges and frequency evolution compatible with clinical seizures lasting approximately 45 to 60 seconds can be seen.  There is also some slight discontinuity in the record.  There is no mention of stimulation of the patient throughout the EEG.  It cannot be determined from this EEG if testing was performed.
HR:  124 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Status epilepticus emanating from the right hemisphere.
Marked background suppression from the left.
Evidence of discontinuity towards the close of the record.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This EEG is indicative of a severe form of status epilepticus.  These results might be more helpful if additional clinical information including medications were known.
Long-Term Monitoring - December 24, 2004 to December 25, 2004
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin and Ativan.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. There are no comments regarding changes in medications for this patient.  There is a comment that the patient may have renal failure.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: Clinically, the patient remains comatose and intubated.  Review of the video does not discern involuntary movements in association with epileptiform activity.  However, although the EEG demonstrates an intermittent burst suppression, in the portions of the EEG that are continuous the patient demonstrates seizures characterized by fast activity and sharp waves from the right hemisphere, particularly the right anterior temporal region.  The duration of the events is 45 to 100 seconds, in some cases with a brief period of suppression.  Towards the close of the record on the 25th, the EEG is more continuous, but there is ongoing sharp waves from the right hemisphere, particularly the right anterior temporal with some frequency evolution seen at that time.  At the close of the record, the EEG is no longer in burst suppression and there is more of a pattern of uniform theta.  An electrographic seizure is identified at 7:43 and the recording ends at 8:08 suggesting that the overall frequency of seizures has decreased from nearly continuous to at least hourly.
HR:  96 BPM.
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
Ongoing status epilepticus seen at some points in the overnight recording even in the setting of a burst suppression pattern.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: If this patient has renal failure, this may have made the epileptiform activity more difficult to control.  Additional clinical history would be important to determine whether or not the discontinuity seen in portions of the record was due to medication effect or metabolic issues.




