CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 60-year-old male with right intracerebral hemorrhage.  Patient found with eyes rolled back, foaming at the mouth, with multiple hemorrhagic lesions. There is no mention of a craniotomy.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, Decadron, and insulin.
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG is performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient is intubated and poorly responsive.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: As the tracing opens, the EEG demonstrates an abnormal pattern with intrahemispheric asymmetry.  The right hemisphere demonstrates a mixed frequency pattern, lower voltage, primarily with delta and theta, and smaller amounts of beta.  The right hemisphere is relatively sharply contoured.  The left hemisphere demonstrates fast activity, particularly left posterior temporal with a sharp wave in the left temporal region, with a large field of spread including C3, T1, and T5.  Within 20 seconds of the EEG, this activity is clearly evolving to a repetitive theta frequency pattern.  The patient is resting on his left side with eye blinking but without other clinical features.  No testing is performed.  By 18:32:30, the activity begins to slow (seizure was ongoing at the start of this EEG at 18:31).  The activity ebbs and is essentially over by 18:33, but the left hemisphere continues to demonstrate spike and slow wave and irregular poly spike and slow wave activity.  The right hemisphere demonstrates slower delta activity following the seizure.  By 18:36, this activity is building up again and another seizure initiates at 18:36/18:37, gradually slowing, and returning to a somewhat discontinuous pattern by 18:39.  At this juncture, the technician contacts the physicians on duty to inform them of these results and to implement changes in therapy.  Stimulation of the patient at 18:42 is performed.  Unfortunately, at this time, the patient is also experiencing a seizure - his third seizure with an identical pattern seen above.   The stimulation does not change the EEG and, in fact, at 18:43:01, the epileptiform activity seems to be more bilateral.  This third seizure begins to fade with an almost burst suppression-like pattern on the left at 18:44.  Another seizure begins at 18:48, fading at the close of this EEG at 18:51.
HR:  __ BPM.check tech sheet
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.	Status epilepticus.
CLINICAL CORRELATION: This individual demonstrated four seizures localizing to the left hemisphere, maximum in the temporal region in an individual in an unconscious state.  This is compatible with the diagnosis of status epilepticus.  These results were communicated to the clinical team so that therapy could be initiated.




