DATE OF STUDY:  11/19/2012 to 11/20/2012, for a total of 17 hours.
REASON FOR STUDY:  Seizures.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 67-year-old woman found covered in urine and feces with a glucose of 1200 and with myoclonus, has a previous possible left MCA infarct and brain atrophy on the CT scan.
MEDICATIONS:  Ativan and fosphenytoin.
INTRODUCTION:  A long term EEG was performed from 11/19/2012 to 11/20/2012 using the standard 10-20 electrode placement system with the addition of anterior temple single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recording will unresponsive.  Activating procedures were not performed.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no normal posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  There is no normal sleep architecture.  No activating procedures were performed.  Overall the background is consistent of diffuse delta slowing at 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-60 microvolts.  There is also some burst suppression seen intermittently.  Superimposed over this background are rhythmic low amplitude of what appears to be polyspikes which at times appear to have a left frontal predominance and sometimes right frontal predominance, and at times they are seen diffusely followed by a beta discharge.  During everyone of these discharges the patient has a jerk which moves her head towards the left and at times towards the right.  In addition to this continuous discharge that occurs at times there is an O2 more than O1 beta discharge that starts suddenly and appears to increase in frequency and then slow down and stop suddenly, occurring frequently throughout the recording.  There is no clinical correlate with this second discharge.
ABNORMAL DISCHARGES:
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 20-30 microvolts with intermittent suppression seen for 2-3 seconds.
Bursts of polyspikes of low amplitude and followed by beta discharges seen diffusely, at times with a left frontal and sometimes a right frontal predominance with associated jerking consistent with myoclonus.
Multiple frequent electrographic seizures arising from the right occipital region consisting of beta evolving in frequency and amplitude which have a sudden onset and end.
IMPRESSION:
Abnormal electroencephalography due to generalized polyspikes with clinical myoclonus as well as multiple right occipital electrographic seizures and marked diffuse slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with severe cerebral dysfunction and irritability with clinical myoclonus, which is consistent with a severe diffuse injury which could be seen with diffuse anoxic injury and sometimes with diffuse metabolic injury.  In addition, there is focal electrographic seizures arising from the right occipital region.  The seizures appear to continue throughout the recording.The myoclonus seems to improve during the last hours of the recording, but not the occipital seizures.  These findings were informed to the primary team as the EEG was reviewed.



