CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 62-year-old male found unresponsive with of head trauma and V-tach arrest.
MEDICATIONS: Dilantin, others.
INTRODUCTION: Prolonged video EEG is performed at the bedside in the ICU using standard 10-20 system of electrode placement with one channel of EKG. The patient is intubated and in a hard collar. He occasionally has jerking of the right arm.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The initial portions of the record demonstrate a periodic epileptiform discharge from the left hemisphere with some spread to the right.  There is a small amount of background theta and the overall pattern is almost one of burst suppression. There are no comments in the record regarding medications.
There are portions of the record with background suppression lasting up to 2 seconds.  There are some portions of the record with faster frequency activity.  At 13:04, the patient has a clinical seizure characterized by motor activity in the right arm with a change in the EEG pattern.  The EEG is partially obscured by muscle, but there is some underlying rhythmic activity from the left hemisphere more than the right.  The event lasts 45 seconds in duration.  There is a similar but not a prolonged discharge at 13:16 without EEG change. As the recording continues, there are similar discharges including at15:00.  At that time, the motor activity becomes less prominent.  This is seen again one minute later and the discharge is shorter in duration.  The recording concludes at 15:35.  At this time, there are no clinical signs, but there are bursts of epileptiform activity and at 15:34, while there is no clinical activity, the EEG pattern shows repetitive sharp waves with some frequency evolution on the left.  Surprisingly, the right hemisphere rather than being suppressed is beginning to show additional evidence of cortical activity just at the early part of the seizure but not at the close of the record; again there is some alpha and theta frequency activity seen from the right hemisphere despite the fact that the left hemisphere does indeed demonstrate subtle seizures.
HR:  120 BPM.
IMPRESSION/CLINICAL CORRELATION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1.	Ongoing subtle seizures.




