CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 46-year-old female with left posterior temporal AVM and clips brought in with first episode of seizure described as shaking all over with tongue biting.
MEDICATIONS:  Chlorhexidine and Dilantin.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with additional anterior temporal and single lead  EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded while confused, unresponsive, and lethargic.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  None.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with a posterior dominant rhythm that reaches 5-7 Hz and there is some frontal central beta.  No normal sleep architecture is seen.  Activating procedures were not performed.
Abnormal discharges:
Frequent T5 sharp waves seen throughout the recording.  At times the sharp waves would suddenly become rhythmic and continue for about 2-3 minutes and then stop.  They did not clearly evolve, but became extremely arrhythmic throughout this time.
Focal slowing seen at T5 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz at an amplitude of 20-60 mV.
Moderate diffuse slowing at 5-7 Hz seen continuously throughout the recording.
Seizures:  As above mentioned there is bursts of T5 sharp waves that did not clearly evolve, but would start and stop suddenly, at times for minutes with no clinical correlate.  These are concerning for possible electrographic seizures.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to left posterior temporal sharp waves and monomorphic discharges concerning for electrographic seizures, in addition to generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with a diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the left posterior temporal region.  Note:  The bursts of rhythmic sharp waves were concerning for electrographic seizures, as they had no clinical correlate.  In addition, there is evidence of moderate diffuse slowing, which may due at least in part to medication effect.  These findings were reported to the primary team who decided to treat the patient and will place the patient on long term monitoring.



