CLINICAL HISTORY: 67 year old male with mitral valve replacement surgery
yesterday, now with myoclonic seizures.
MEDICATIONS: Ativan, Amiodarone, Dopamine, Epinephrine, Darbepoetin, Rifampin,
Bactroban, Telavancin, Cefuroxime, Famotidine, Milrinone
INTRODUCTION: Digital video EEG was performed at bedside using standard 10-20
system of electrode placement with 1 channel of EKG. The patient is unresponsive. He
is examined throughout the EEG. A clinical seizure with myoclonus is noted.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD: The background EEG is markedly abnormal and
includes initially a medium amplitude mixed frequency pattern with some rhythmic theta
and delta from both hemispheres. The major abnormalities in this record include a left
occipital periodic sharp wave which clearly evolves during the record. In addition, there
is rhythmic theta delta from the left mid temporal region with a generous field of spread
which does not always have the same periodicity as the left occipital sharp wave.
A clinical seizure is noted at 08:49:20 characterized by the appearance of right-sided
"myoclonic jerking." This is associated with an increase in faster frequency activities
from the left. This is seen at 08:49:10 and is in fact beta frequency activity which is so
rhythmic that it almost appears to be artifactual and is approximately 15 Hz. The total
seizure duration is 2 minutes. Muscle artifact obscures the epileptiform pattern but this
is likely a pattern of fast activity from the left central region. The postictal record is
markedly suppressed followed by some lower voltage rhythmic activity at C3P3. By
08:55:00, left occipital periodic sharp activity re-emerges with some fields to spread to
the right and then this activity starts to evolve by 08:56:00.
HR:. 120 bpm
IMPRESSION: Abnormal EEG due to:
1. More than 1 repetitive ictal pattern.
2. Two clinical seizures at 08:49 and 09:01:40. The two seizure patterns have
different epileptiform morphologies and the second one has repetitive rhythmic
activity in the left mid temporal region followed by the muscle jerking at 09:01 :52.
3. Epileptiform activity at 01, C3 and left mid temporal region.
4. Background slowing.



